That's a good description of it. Good luck on your journey.
This is so true. Its especially true in my culture as an asian because depression is thought of as taboo. Having a child with depression makes them think its the absolute end of the world, that they’ve got a ruined child and they’ve failed in raising me as my parent. Its not their fault, but with that mentality we cant share the feelings we have with people who we should feel most safe to talk about our emotions openly, without further feeling like a burden to the whole family. Then that shit spreads like wildfire through the family members ‍♀️
I know how you feel. I feel sad and hopeless most of the time, but I always manage to go to work. I guess as hard as it is when I wake up, once I’m there I feel somewhat better.
I’m going to buy someone a hot chocolate today and say something similar, ;hugs!
Fuck, you gave me goosebumps . <3
Yes it feels like the calm before the hurricane. Some times i feel like my brain has a bucket when he keeps the serotonin, when theres a happy moment he says like "YES HAPPY MOMENT" *dumps the whole bucket*, but the next day as my brain spent all the serotonin for the week in the other happy moment theres no more serotonin left. 
To me it's more like I'm paraplegic and without a wheelchair. Someone dumped me at the start of a marathon, and everyone is yelling at me for "not trying". A couple of people approach me with "helpful tips on how to run a marathon", but when I tell them that I literally cannot move, they get mad and start yelling too. Then, those yelling people are saying that I am lazy, and that I want someone to carry me to the finish line. I'm trying to tell them I am not even interested in running their dumb race, so they call me lazy for not trying. Another group of people approach me with stories about how they used to be paraplegic, or they know someone who's paraplegic, who went on to win a gold medal in the Olympics. They show a picture and said person has an expensive motorized high tech wheelchair. I let them know I can't even afford a foldable lightweight wheelchair, so they look at me confused, then get mad, and then tell me I am not trying hard enough to get that expensive motorized high tech wheelchair. 23 years of this bullshit. I am tired too man.
I can't even remember my life ten years ago
Yep. You might be able to see it if you know what you're looking for. Otherwise I look a little tired and I'm probably pretty quiet but I'm conversing and even laughing at the right parts. People don't realize how tiring keeping up appearances is or that while they're talking about the weather or work my mind is still on whether or not I'd die if I jumped off the parking garage.  
Went out with someone who was 23 and is currently making twice as much as me doing a job that requires half the education I have. I felt like shit that I have a 4 year degree and nothing to show for it at 28 years old while people with 2 year degrees, sometimes even college drop outside, making much more money than me because they went into trade jobs. Now I'm just in debt with a worthless piece of paper. No real job skills.
the biggest thing that i hate about life is how competitive everyone is and is encouraged to be since birth. everything revolves around standing out as an individual and developing talents that you can then sell in the "market place". but what if you don't care about that? what if you derive the most joy out of cooperating with people you enjoy being around, instead of wasting your entire life in a job that you hate? i don't really want success, i just want to be able to do whatever i want without worrying about money. the constant worry cripples me and makes it so i don't want to do anything when i do have free time. the world just seems like an utterly cold inhuman place. it wasn't made for a person like me, but for somebody else. somebody i fundamentally can't relate to.
Yes, every day! It's the only thing exciting in life. Having that irregular bedtime: "When will I sleep today? I don't know!" Exhilarating. Plus, you'll probably die sooner so you won't have to deal with life as much.
Yeah, for a few years now.  Mostly because it'd finally bring me some peace, no pressure of letting people down, and no hurt from being let down.I also don't think I bring much good to the world, so it wouldn't make much difference.And lately, every day has just been waiting for the next day to come and magically fix everything, which seems like a waste.But I know this comes and goes, and I'm allowed to have these periods, so I'm just choosing to lay low for a while and wait for an "up" period.How's it work for you?
Yes massively. I can't hold conversations very well, I also lose track of time/space.  I've only just started my recovery process but i'm hoping one day I can go back to remembering stuff
This would be called Persistent Depressive Disorder. I am not diagnosing you BUT I say look into it. This is exactly what I was diagnosed with along with C-PTSD. And it sucks because I feel like I’m not sick enough. Sure I may go days without showering and brushing my teeth. I have crying episodes and I self-harm. Suicidal ideations totally there. But I also go to school. Go out with friends. I have good grades and pass all my classes. And like you, I feel like I’m living a double life. There’s been this desire in me lately. One of just escaping. Either through death or through moving to another state. But there’s just this intense desire to get away. And I think that’s where it stems from. I won’t lie, I suffer from an identity crisis. I genuinely don’t know who I really am. I’ve spent my whole life conforming to everyone’s standards just to please them. Anyways OP, I hope you’re able to overcome this to whatever extent possible. We all deserve a chance at true happiness.
Yeah this is me, am always trying to search for a scenario where it would be worth it to continue, but everything seems worthless.
That honestly sucks! I hate when parents do that, it’s so annoying and doesn’t help what so ever. Are you okay?
Yes. It's very rare to meet someone that I feel comfortable with. I usually feel like an outsider and like I dont fit in. I long to belong though lol
I’m so sorry for your loss ❤️
Of course, all the time. It fucking sucks.
We normally don't wake up excited. The biggest issue is that we start to forget the last time we were legitimately happy and then all the days blend together and memories are missing.
I'm just throwing this out there, but that kind of sounds like mania(hypo?) and the depressive state that follows. Not qualified to diagnose this at all but I do recognize what you are saying(really motivated followed by a crash) in my pattern of moods and I have bipolar disorder type 2. Or it could just be ups and downs of depression and normal state.
The worst part is it was so gradual. That’s why I went so long without noticing. 
This makes me happy. Sometimes it’s hard to find ways to get out of the house when you’re alone. Coffee shops are nice because you *can* be social, but you don’t have to be. I’ve been going to a local coffee shop sporadically over the past year, whether it’s to work on art or homework. I haven’t built any lasting connections, but it’s often one of my only ways to get out of my apartment. 
Yes. Dear God, yes. Functional depression is such a bitch most days. When strangers ask me what I do for a living, I tell them I’m an actress.I mean... it’s not a lie, is it?
Congratulations! I did pretty much the same thing, and it was tough but well worth it to go back. Good luck! You got this.  :)
Agreed. I feel like a spoiled brat all the time. But I also feel a little deluded and helpless.
Yes.  For me, the motivatated times keep getying shorter and further apart.
This is a pretty accurate description of my life actually. Wanna talk about it?
Ay mate good job, you've done it. You've managed to get out. Nicely done
[deleted]
This doesn’t come off as arrogant or insensitive at all. I know exactly how you’re feeling. It really sucks. I’m a shy, introverted person to begin with, but anxiety and depression has really just killed any semblance of personality. Unfortunately I turn to drinking to get myself out of my bubble. Whenever I hang out with my friends I usually just sit there and don’t say much.
I just say "I'm sick.".   It is true -- mental illness is illness.   It is none of their issue what ailment I'm suffering from, no obligation or guilt tripping from my side to specify.
Yes. Sleep is the greatest escape I have these days. But then sometimes I get insomnia and can't access it. The worst.
Such a perfect analogy. I hate talking about my depression, I stopped after I opened up to someone about it and their response was “just try thinking positive:)” Well gee, why didn’t I think of that?! 
I don't know what part of me is depression and what is just my personality
[deleted]
Depressed because unloved, unloved because depressed.
thats nice you are noticed and valued.
I sometimes think that animals can feel when we're down and need their help, at least more so than humans can. I don't know why that is, but I am glad your little guy was there for you, and that you are still with us.
I have this too. No motivation to do anything whatsoever, but no ability to rest either. As soon as I sit down, a voice tells me I'm lazy, useless and unproductive. A friend I talked to thinks it's related to upbringing and how strictly your parents pushed you. Ps: I just noticed you commented on my last post. Thanks and take care!
Yes! Every time I went and still every time I go to my psychiatry appointments! I can cover maybe one or two things when there's twenty and I remember when I get in the car to leave. The memory problems, concentration, and the brain fog are my least favorite symptoms!
Yeah, all the time. I'm totally incapable of studying when I'm really depressed. I can't remember anything, I can read something 10 times and still manage to not understand it. You're not alone, don't worry. Try going for a walk when it happens or take a cold shower. It doesn't always work, but sometimes it does.
That's exactly how a feel. Many times when I cross a street I think to not look any direction and just go and whatever happens happens
Yes. Also, I like to just have the night to myself. There's something calming about the night time when most things are asleep.
I always jut say im tired, and people believe it. They just leave me alone after
Family is mostly a product of random chance. You don’t owe your family anything except for how they’ve treated you. If your family treats you like this, they don’t have to be a part of your life.
I can't talk about my problems because I tell myself that I'm making a mountain out of a molehill and that most likely I'm just using it to manipulate people by puttintg on a show.So yeah I know how you feel, it really sucks. I feel I can't really talk to anyone about my problems because of this constant worry.
[deleted]
I know exactly how you're feeling.. I'm feeling it right now
Child prodigy —> talented —> clever —> average —> incompetent Never quite sure if it was the depression or just me peaking early and falling early. 
I read somewhere that lonely people take longer warm showers cause the warmth almost mimics emotional warmth. I love hot showers 
That's so relatable. I have a bad habit of sleeping for at least 14 hours a day -- and sometimes up to 20. I just can't stand to be awake anymore and even though just about everyone in my life says I need to fix this, I don't want to. Sleep is like a step-up from death. If I can't have death, at least let me have sleep.
Wow. The title just about gave me goosebumps.. I vividly imagined waking up one day and *not* wanting to simply cease to exist. The dark cloud, weight on your shoulders, prison cell inside your mind, whatever you want to call it, just... wasn't there anymore. Immediately experiencing a rush of contentment and peacefulness, that for most people, comes naturally. Im so incredibly fascinated with that idea, because it just seems so foreign, so unreal to me. I can in a sense understand why to the average person, "today I woke up, and I didn't feel like dying!" Does not seem like a huge accomplishment. But I'm sure the people here understand.Gives me some hope that maybe some day will be my day. :) so so happy for you!
I know what you mean I can be told things a thousand times but if its something important I immediately forget it if it's not important I can remember it down to the last detail. It's really annoying.
Sadly I get this a great deal, and it drives me crazy, I am sorry your going through it as well. I used to be able to watch a TV show or movie and care about it, now I have to pause ever 15 or 30 minutes and wait, watching a show or film can take me all day, I just can't bring myself to give a shit about pretend. I loved to read, I read a book a week or more from 8 until 32 years old. For the next 4 years of depression I read 5 books. And in the last 2 years of recovery and therapy things have improved, but more in other ways, now its still only a book every 2 months, wildly different than most of my life. I never did social media at all before I got on Reddit less than 2 years ago, not of any kind. Reddit is different, I still don't do anything else, and I do like it here and the people I have met, but I do notice I am on here 3 to 6 hours every day. I feel like I am coasting intellectually on things I already learned, ideas I already formed, philosophy I already believed, and more than anything thoughts I have already thought. This is the thing that is most for me, I am articulate and well read enough, with enough evidence based and fully formed opinions, that I can appear intelligent in all likelihood forever. But that is not the point. Intellect is nothing if one does not grow, does not learn and change, does not reach. It is improving with therapy and such, but in truth it is quite slow. The memory, concentration and motivation issues are incredibly frustrating, it bothers me because I want it and am trying hard, yet redeveloping it is proving so difficult. I wish I had answers besides continuing to move forward and to keep trying things, keeping those that prove effective over time. But its really irritating in truth, I can empathize a great deal.
I mean, I spend my whole life just in my room watching YouTube and I hate it but I’m too anxious to go outside, and I don’t really have any friends so it’s hard for me to find things so do. And it’s mostly cuz of bloody anxiety and ocd stopping me. Edit: Thanks for all the support!
When I go from empty to sad and so pissed off I hyperventilate
I feel like my humanity was burned away long ago and I'm just a walking meat archive of knowledge and experiences.
[deleted]
it’s going to be ok buddy. i’m here for you and i’m sure everyone else on this sub is. you just have to be strong. not the strongest in the world, but the strongest person YOU can be. your mom would love that.
Every god damn day
[deleted]
I'm only fine after I obtained that suicide method and I know that I do have a way out if things get worse than they really are.
I'm depressed because I'm a bad person andI'm a bad person because I'm depressed
I have no clue! I can barely relax nowadays, I’m always on the edge. I’ve been studying and working my ass off all day because of all the tests and homework, I can barely calm down except for the weekends which are short. I can barely feel anything, I just feel numb. I hope that the pain will end soon, I just want to relax.
Then if you mention wanting to kill yourself or not wanting to be alive, people think you’re just doing it for attention. It’s actually sickening
I keep wanting to take a sick day but feel too guilty about lying about the reason so I just force myself to go to work anyway, because I feel like I'm being lazy if I take a sick day due to depression :(
Merry christmas you too
Proud of you
That's how I feel right now.  I'm at the in between stage of wanting to curl up in the corner screaming like an animal while tearing my skin off just to feel something else and not feeling anything at all.  I don't know what's worse . . . I want to fall asleep and never wake up and it scares me.  I'm at work, 12 hour shift, and I don't have anyone to turn to right now.  So, I thought I'd find those who understand on here.
Definitely. Sometimes I get even more depressed knowing how much time I spend daydreaming instead of making friends and actually doing things.
I feel the same way. I spend the week-end all alone in my dark room. Twitter, Reddit, Twitter again. Everyone around me seems so happy. But me... I can't remember the last time I was interested at something. I used to make music, to go out with friends, to play video games, read comics. Now I have maybe 2, 3 friends. I barely speak to my family, I do nothing. I ruined everything. I feel like I can't be happy anymore. And I am only 27...
Bottling up might be unhealthy but I'm not sure opening up to people who don't understand is healthy or not.
I’m with you on this one. I wish I could donate my time on earth to someone who would actually make good use out of it. It sucks that many people who contribute to this world get cancer and die while people like me live despite not wanting to. I’m tired of feeling like a piece of shit all the time. I wish I could either stop feeling this way or be brave enough to actually go through with it. Instead I’m totally useless and stuck here not enjoying life but also hanging in there only because I feel like I could never take my own life. On top of that I feel guilty because there’s nothing wrong with my life. My parents still pay for everything. I’m in university. I just feel like a failure and my major is shitty and it won’t get me anything in life because I’m too stupid to do what I dream about doing. and overall I’m a very anxious person who can’t deal with life situations. I worry about everything and can’t do anything by myself. I live in a shitty country with shitty government and people who hate everyone who isn’t a straight, white person. I’m just a piece of shit tbh, my parents deserve a better child. I would be happy to die by an accident so nobody could blame me and wonder what they could have done.  I understand other people have it worse but I’m just really having a very shitty time here on earth and the thought of being alive for let’s say the next 50 years absolutely terrifies me.
You should show that you care, and stay with her, she needs it now more than ever.EDIT: Not to mention how much you will regret not being there for her.I hope she has a quick recovery.
Yes, I get extremely angry with the people around me. The one positive to come out of my anger is that I can use that anger to fuel exercise. I don't get rid of my anger, I just redirect it.
absolutely. i love sleeping so much. i dont want to live but i dont want to die, i just want to sleep. and wake up only to eat, watch some movies, then sleep again and repeat.
This was an oddly uplifting story. 
Also, future me, if you're reading this post.Yes you are depressed, no you're not faking, ~~normal~~ healthy people don't feel this way.Stop overthinking.You deserve help but next appointment tell her how much you feel like you don't deserve it and you know it's irrational but you can't shake it off.EDIT: To anyone else who's reading and needs to hear this: your feelings ARE valid.Also, this community is amazing and you all are making me feel warm and fuzzy inside.
I was driving once and caught myself in the middle of calling myself a useless, pathetic sack of shit.I mean seriously, that's just mean
I remember reading your last post. I didn’t respond to it because I saw it 6 hours after and you weren’t responding anymore. My heart sank and I assumed the worst. I am really happy to see that you’re here.
I haven't related to a sentence more.. "being alive is a scam" you're so fucking right. I'm able to breathe so I guess that means I'm either gonna slave away my whole life at a shitty job or be homeless
Sooooo true. My neighbour is one of my only best friends from growing up and we hardly ever see each other but when she comes round, I feel so much better about everything. Talking with her makes me feel motivated and better about life, I don’t think she realises the affect it has on me.
Dude even still, like fuck that guy. Who fucks their best friends ex while they are in the hospital. You wanna feel better? Get better friends. Fuck em both.
I just don't want my life. I want a refund or exchange it
Hello. I’m 30 and went through the exact same thing. And still feel under my “potential”. I’m sorry and you’re not alone. 
Sometimes I’ll be with friends laughing and then I just suddenly stop as I realise I’m mostly just pretending. I’m not actually happy, this is just a mask to make others think I’m fine.
Yes, gotta love Generalized Anxiety Disorder.
Good luck with the interview! Im convinced the beach is a soul-healing place
Yes. And then get up and think about how great it would be to be in bed. And then while lying down, think about how great it would be to up when no one else is...and on and on and on.
always. whenever im in a group w other people i get quiet after a few minutes just to try and not annoy anyone
Then live for them. If you can’t do it for yourself do it for them. I know the same way you feel. I was so adamant on killing myself and finally leaving and I found someone to live for. Someone who actually needs me. My therapist told me if you can’t live for yourself find someone to live for to keep you going a little longer. It doesn’t always have to be you. Once they pass on if you haven’t found a new reason thats completely fine. You lasted that long and that’s amazing and I’ll be very proud of you. But if you can’t then that’s fine also. You lasted as long as you did and that’s amazing as well.Edit: y’all are gonna make me cry And too add more. It doesn’t always have to be people!! It can be your fur babies as well. Anything that has a huge significance in your life. Make that your reason to live. Something to just keep you going. Anything. But if you can’t hold on any longer I wish you nothing but a quick and painless passing. And you move on with no pain ❤️❤️
It's the reason we take so damn long to get help. Nothing but a vicious cycle tbh. A few days ago I saw Major Depressive Disorder written on my script for the first time and yet I still doubt myself.
It isnt funny but I still end up laughing at those jokes despite feeling depressed. It's just the way I express my fake comfort with peoples appropriation of something they're unwilling to understand.
[deleted]
I know how you feel. That's happened to me all this week. :/I wake up a few times, but I just go back to sleep and hope the dream is still there.
Not jealous or bitter (I don't think) but deeply sad and sometimes quite angry at myself that I can't seem to just snap out of it
Yeah. It's always a really cold, isolating feeling.
I have this mindset a lot, i feel sometimes I've fucked my life to point that there is no fixing it, in a way i have I'm very isolated by my own choosing and I've given up on a lot
You should have waited till a half hour before it began. Cos you gave them a chance to go find another option.
I have a confession to make. I sing in the shower. Sometimes I spend too much time volunteering. Occasionally I'll hit somebody with my car.
I’m a nanny, first thing I tell my first time parents.. it’s ok to put the baby in a safe place and shut the door. You cannot help if you are not in control. Babies feed off your energy. Try laughing when you feel overwhelmed, it can trick your heart and energy and the baby can’t feel your panick anymore.. yes you will look like a mad lady but I swear by it as a nanny. Even I get overwhelmed and want them to stfu. Edit: if you live in USA, CO I’ll send you my references and come help relieve you for free. Edit: no it’s not that safe in a car seat. When they are in the car they tilt back slightly than when they are on a flat surface. If you are going to leave a child in it(because 99% of parents do when the kids asleep when they get home from a car ride) tilt them back slightly.. SLIGHTLY, I’ll clarify so people don’t jump guns assuming everyone’s sticking their kids upside down. Head should not be lower than lower half of body
> It’s the little things.Thats what she said?
Mr X has 65k karma at present.
If anyone needs someone to talk to. I may not be a psychiatrist but I do work as a combat medic and I’m more than willing to listen and talk and help you find your way. Dm for a number I will always answer. Edit: My lord thank you kind strangers for the gold and sliver! My very first one! Gold bless you guys. If anyone knows any family or friends that you know need some advice but are to afraid to ask let me know. Edit2: I’m sorry guys I’ve been answering messages no stop for a few hours now, I’m hoping I’ve help every single one of you even if it is the slightest. I’m heading off to bed tonight. If you got my number and need me in the middle of the night go ahead and call I’ll answer( ringer is on high) goodnight ya’ll I’ll message again tomorrow morning! Edit3: My lord thank you everyone for your kind words! This blew up and I’ve been trying to help everyone! I’m sorry for not answering I woke up early and was on a detail.  I should be able to answer everyone rapidly again! 
Dude please, please don’t take this as a negative or me shitting in your achievement. First of all, that’s fucking awesome.  Had a bunch of friends addicted to opiates and as much as I tried to help, nothing worked. Some are dead/in jail/or are just a fucking mess still (I’m in my 40’s as are they).  Dude not only did you quit but you were able to toss what was lying around. I feel that would of been the first relapse for most people.  Truly shows your strength and character and I genuinely wish you nothing but the best moving forward. I don’t know your story but I found it concerning that a month or so after you quit someone left shit in your house. I’m sure you heard this a ton of times and I’m really not trying to bring you down at all, but get the fuck away from those people.   Maybe try support groups or something similar to meet people in similar situations who understand what’s needed to stay clean.  You should be proud of yourself, hell I think we’re all proud of ya. Stay strong brother and if you need to chat or something feel free to pm me whenever. ✌️Edit: toward to forward
[deleted]
This is so cute
Not calling OP a sociopath, but this is definitely a life hack for sociopaths
I don't know if this is real or not but holy shit what a ride it was
I’d like to do something like this but I’m too broke lol. Guess I can still help people by giving nice comments for free. The internet needs less trashy people and more people like OPEdit:thank you for the silver, gold and platinum :)
same. But at least I dont get distracted or annoyed by people I vaguely know and reminded of all the things Im missing out on.
You were abused from the time you were a small child. I think you’re being too hard on yourself. Your dad should be in jail and you should report him. PLEASE report him. You also should seek trauma counseling. Just reading this was triggering, I can’t imagine living itI know you blame yourself but always remember you are a victim and he is an ABUSER.
You're a fucking genius.
I'd ghost someone too if they said "could care less" instead of "couldn't care less." You'll find someone one day who knows the difference and you'll be much better off.
Nothing is going to make you feel better right now, but this comment from u/Gsnow  has been useful for  those experiencing such a loss&#x200B;>Alright, here goes. I'm old. What that means is that I've survived (so far) and a lot of people I've known and loved did not. I've lost friends, best friends, acquaintances, co-workers, grandparents, mom, relatives, teachers, mentors, students, neighbors, and a host of other folks. I have no children, and I can't imagine the pain it must be to lose a child. But here's my two cents.  >  >I wish I could say you get used to people dying. I never did. I don't want to. It tears a hole through me whenever somebody I love dies, no matter the circumstances. But I don't want it to "not matter". I don't want it to be something that just passes. My scars are a testament to the love and the relationship that I had for and with that person. And if the scar is deep, so was the love. So be it. Scars are a testament to life. Scars are a testament that I can love deeply and live deeply and be cut, or even gouged, and that I can heal and continue to live and continue to love. And the scar tissue is stronger than the original flesh ever was. Scars are a testament to life. Scars are only ugly to people who can't see.  >  >As for grief, you'll find it comes in waves. When the ship is first wrecked, you're drowning, with wreckage all around you. Everything floating around you reminds you of the beauty and the magnificence of the ship that was, and is no more. And all you can do is float. You find some piece of the wreckage and you hang on for a while. Maybe it's some physical thing. Maybe it's a happy memory or a photograph. Maybe it's a person who is also floating. For a while, all you can do is float. Stay alive.  >  >In the beginning, the waves are 100 feet tall and crash over you without mercy. They come 10 seconds apart and don't even give you time to catch your breath. All you can do is hang on and float. After a while, maybe weeks, maybe months, you'll find the waves are still 100 feet tall, but they come further apart. When they come, they still crash all over you and wipe you out. But in between, you can breathe, you can function. You never know what's going to trigger the grief. It might be a song, a picture, a street intersection, the smell of a cup of coffee. It can be just about anything...and the wave comes crashing. But in between waves, there is life.  >  >Somewhere down the line, and it's different for everybody, you find that the waves are only 80 feet tall. Or 50 feet tall. And while they still come, they come further apart. You can see them coming. An anniversary, a birthday, or Christmas, or landing at O'Hare. You can see it coming, for the most part, and prepare yourself. And when it washes over you, you know that somehow you will, again, come out the other side. Soaking wet, sputtering, still hanging on to some tiny piece of the wreckage, but you'll come out.  >  >Take it from an old guy. The waves never stop coming, and somehow you don't really want them to. But you learn that you'll survive them. And other waves will come. And you'll survive them too. If you're lucky, you'll have lots of scars from lots of loves. And lots of shipwrecks.
As a fellow parent who’s daughter was also granted a wish to Disney World. My advice for you. Enjoy it. Take the time to just be a kid with your kid. Special Needs parents spend so much time wondering about the next day, week, month etc. We sometimes forget how much fun being a parent of an awesome kid can be. The wish may be granted for the child, but especially on the trip wishes, it really meant to allow the family to do something they rarely get to do. Be a family, having fun, without all the worry. My wife has since become a Wish Grantor for the Organization. She loves it. She keeps getting unique wishes as well. Her first one was building a Wheel Chair Accessible Tree House. Was quite the build. I know this is hard time, when my daughter passed due her disability, it was hard on us as well. Not going to try and diminish your anguish on this issue. Especially when you know it coming. But I will offer up this advice, take the time to live and have fun whenever possible. And do something for yourself now and then. 
Fake a head injury and go back to normal. This post is hilarious, sorry OP
I unsubscribed from unpopular opinion because this was posted there every day..
I’m pleased to report your priorities are in order.
I'm so so sorry my friend. I don't have any words of advice, I can only say that what you're doing is the hardest thing you're going to do in your life and you're a good man for doing it. I wish there was more I could do or say to help.
Good on you.  Just never blurt out this secret in moments of anger with your mom.   It would really crush her self esteem to know that her {son} pretty DAUGHTER thinks she is so imperfect as to doctor her photos. Edited from SON —> DAUGHTER
Damn
Uh oh, busted haha. You've got a good m8 there.
i’m so sorry, but this is the funniest thing i’ve ever read
He knows man. He knows. 
so when he reads this on reddit how do you think he will feel
I weighed myself pre and post poop the other day. It was 0.6kg (1.3 pounds). If you measure yourself regularly where does my dump fall within your shitting mass distribution?
A guy who I was friends with robbed me and my boyfriend at the time, and my boyfriend was hanging onto his car as he drove away. Someone in the car elbowed him until he dropped to the asphalt and tore up his face, arms, and back. Then the dude called me and blamed me for him robbing me and threatened to come back to my house with a shotgun and kill my family.He was hit by a car and died a couple years later. Very pleased.
Reddit is my favorite so far but godamn the people on here are judgey
She’ll forgive you, but she’ll wonder for the rest of *her* life why you didn’t tell her you were sick. It’s your choice. And she may try to pressure you to try treatment, but that part is up to you. Edit: my first gold! Thank you 
But did you smash that like button and subscribe? 
I don't know what a squishy is, but this is a sweet story either way. 
Awe this made me cry:  (
The only  best thing you can do in this worst situation is that Tell your kids right now.. Because You can avoid it for few days but you have to pay additional price for the delay.
(If you are a guy, OP) it’s important to know that men can suffer from spousal abuse too, and that you are not alone in this. I’m so sorry you went through that. It’s hard to get over the things that boyfriends/girlfriends do to you, but you can do it. It takes a strong heart and mind but it can be done. You just have to know that you didn’t deserve that, and you are worthy of love and so much more than that. 
TIL that  [u/MisterWhisler\_](https://www.reddit.com/user/MisterWhisler_/) forgot to log out of his work computer, and now a coworker is busting his balls by creating this post, as well as another one posted two hours ago titled, "**TIFU by forgetting to log out of reddit" @**  [www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/cj2ox1/tifu\_by\_forgetting\_to\_log\_out\_of\_reddit/](https://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/cj2ox1/tifu_by_forgetting_to_log_out_of_reddit/)&#x200B;(Edit: fixed OP's username)
If she’s that quick to send you those pics guarantee she’s sending dirtier ones to other dudes 
you can’t post this and not tell us what he did
Remember to post updates
As a Jewish guy myself with a rabbi for an uncle this is the exact kind of story he would absolutely love. I can already hear him telling it and adding on his wisdom “and this schmlek, who supposedly wasn’t really a Jew, ended up living the type of virtuous Jewish life that we all should strive for making him as much of a Jew as anyone here” or something like that. I promise you, he’d love ya. Sure you lied but had you been born a Jew you’d be living the life of a good Jew. You weren’t born a Jew and you’re still living the life of a good Jew, so who cares. Mazel tov.Oh and for the record plenty of Jews don’t believe in god including me. A lot of it is about the sense of community and unity.
What if OP's girlfriend likes that cologne, and is using operational conditioning to make him wear it more?
A friend owes me money because she couldn't afford groceries when she was forced to move out of her ex boyfriend's place and I gave her money with the clause that she could pay me back whenever she got back on her feet. She has since gotten a second job, de-friended me on facebook (but not instagram) and frequently posts pictures of her getting her nails done and recently went on a vacation across the country. I gotta stop being nice.Edit: No. Her name is not Jenn. Mine is. Please stop asking.
That’s some dedication right there
I swear since I join the world of reddits I have found so many people like me...ahhhhhh not alone :)
At some point your story will help others. I understand not wanting friends and family to know, but some day someone will need to hear from you that it’s possible. I’m so happy that you’ll be here to tell your story!
All political affiliation aside, Socrates believed that ignorance was the root of all evil done in this world.  
I'm partially here because I need upvotes to post on an advice subreddit, and partially because I understand. I feel the same way, it's nice when people genuinely respond when you feel you need someone one way or another :)
Why didn’t he just keep banging the younger chicks and hang out with his friends 
Arriving in theaters right between Mother’s Day and Father’s Day, “Parents Trapped”. Michael Douglass and Jane Fonda play former spouses who are put in the same nursing home 40 years after a bitter divorce. Will they kill each other, or will nature do it for them? All the fun of Se7en- with the sexiness of The Golden Girls. - Gene Siskel Cocoon meets War of the Roses, thumbs up - Roger Ebert
Sounds good. How about in your will you leave a copy of the cashed check? You know, just for fun?
That's the most annoying type of ad so far. I'm the same way, once that ad pops up I'm gone, I guess I'll never know how to make hamburger stuffed tacos 
There’s some app that loads reddit to look like outlook. I don’t have the link but I’m sure you could find it easily. I believe it’s on githubEdit: [found it!](https://pcottle.github.io/MSOutlookit/)
Being popular online is hard. It’s like attending 10,000 high schools at once. Just do you
Now *that's* a fuckin' confession.
It’s posts like this that make me love Reddit 
Stay strong...you won’t regret waiting when you see the reaction you’ll get from him when he knows it’s official.  
I thought I was going to jail when I got caught looking at girls in bikinis on a school computer since I wasn’t 18 .
Gross. That shit is gross.
Good for you. Sounds like you really found something that works for you! 
Worth it for this short story.
 It two copies of his numbers so you can enjoy splitting the pot 2/3 to 1/3
fuckin josh morton
I did that when I worked at subway. There was a crew of construction workers that came in everyday for lunch and i quickly memorized their orders so as soon as I saw them pull up I’d start making them 
I knew it! Finally, after all these years of pondering. Thank you!
More karma for you potato ✌✌✌
a quote that has stuck with me since I first heard it "self care isn't always chocolate cake and soft baths, it's creating a life for yourself that you don't feel the need to constantly escape from.". 
“They told me I could.”WELL FUCK THEM TOO.
Is a 1k budget for one person’s Christmas presents not insane to anyone else..?
As a person who has anxiety and Aspergers honestly thank you so much for caring for your son’s comfort. School was hell for me and I had GOOD teachers. I absolutely can’t stand people who act like disabilities are things you can learn to grow out of, especially actual teachers who play a major part in child development. You did good.
You: Ready to goKid: YepYou: Got your gloves?Kid: YepMom: What?You: What
Little babies started to cry hahahahahh fucking brilliant 
What the fuck
Thank you everyone for the encouraging words! I’m definitely keeping at it. My mom smokes and I’ve reached the point where her cigarettes stink to me. I’ve been airing out my house and washing everything I own. I can only imagine how bad everything in my home wreaks. What a nasty habit I picked up. 
Poor guy must be having a heart attack at this point
A girl I went to school with has had two children but she posted on FB that she won’t be uploading any (or many) pics of her pregnancy/birth/ children on social, due to the fact that most people don’t want to see that shit. She instead had a blog where people who actually wanted to know how she and the family were doing could go and check it out on their own terms.I thought that was brilliant and she had a very tasteful writing style so I could check in every now and again. 
Greetings, Pastor.I’m an agnostic who’s neck-deep in the church, leading seminars for new believers twice a year and the team ministry support for the church version of AA (celebrate recovery). I’m on several other support/lead teams as well, and a former missionary.I’m also an alcoholic, and brutally bipolar which if it was found out, I’d be buried underneath a stack of deacons and pastors so fast, I’d not see daylight for months. It’s happened once before and nothing spikes my terror more than that happening again.You’re not alone. The church is horridly difficult to break free from. I’ve been slowly withdrawing for the last 4-5 months. Dropping a committee here and there and now I’m down to two.Two very big ones, that if I withdraw from, there will be repercussions.I actually like church and believe in God. But my mental health is in tatters right now and Christianity doesn’t allow for mental illness - hence my fear.Here’s more involved here than I’ll bother typing, but safe to say that you’re not alone and as a pastor, you should be able to safely take a 1-year sabbatical.It’ll buy you time, and give you space to think things through. You 100% can tell them that this isn’t your calling and you’re stepping down.They’ll survive. You need to take care of you and yours first. It won’t be easy, I know all too well, but it’ll be worth it in the end.Just don’t lose yourself in the process. Faith meant something to you once, and you’ll need to answer why it doesn’t anymore.Good luck, take care of you.Feel free to message me if you want. 
That is so tragic. Freak accidents unfortunately happen and it's not fair to blame you.
I did this on a business trip. It was by accident but I actually enjoyed the night. The bartender gave me a "straight stamp" on my hand and nobody hit on me after that. They were all super polite. It was also very clean and had fun club music playing. 10/10 would go again.
I’m very proud of you for getting the help you needed and turning your life around.
Thats fabulous.
That is so sweet and now I’m tearing up. Good on you for giving your dad such a meaningful gift and not giving up on him because he wasn’t a conventional dad. Good for you for seeing that he does actually love and care about you despite his inability to show it or express it. I’ve worked with a lot of students with Aspergers and they all had trouble expressing emotions and feelings. 
I flip people off under my dash .. safer these days
Film their reaction and save it. Whenever you feel down, Replay it and it'll cheer you up.
One day at a time. You’re on the right track!
Sometimes the more you understand the way you work, the less you feel like person, and the more you feel like a machine.
When I was at school we would trade stickers (like any stickers, literally) and sticker book collections would get stolen all the time until the whole syndicate got shut down. 
Woah this hit close to home. I’m proud of you for being a strong person. 
It costs you more than it does them.  Take a second.  Breathe.  Let it go......You curate your own Reddit experience.  Stop by r/aww
Age 15/16 and you hadn't met? Sounds as if you grew up in some special religious community? That's a big part of this story so can't be understood unless you explain that. If that's the deal then you possibly grew up in a cult and are now getting the courage to leave. That's a lot different than just an average marriage.
Holy fucking shit lol this is probably the worst thing I've read someone confess on this subreddit yet. I'm cringing too
Turns out it's a type C
Good job for taking care of her, even when you didn't want children. Life gave you lemons, you made the best of it. Honestly, I can't blame you too much that a part of you is happy the lemons are gone, though not everyone will agree with me there.
This will sound harsh and will probably garner me a lot of downvotes - but if you’re miserable, you have every right to pursue divorce. 
Most threads it is naturally assumed im a man. I am not.
I think like 20 people will show up, see a bunch of dudes with fully automatic weapons and say “yknow what? This meme fucking sucks” then they’ll go home and a bunch of people will shitpost about it here.
Oh my god please go. And tell us everything. I’m now emotionally invested in your love story. 
You understand you had nothing to do with this.  Other than the initial conception, it was out of your control.   Find some peace if you can.
To him you are his mom and dad! You are his whole world and I’m sure he wants nothing more than to be with you ! You are more than enough for him!
Don't forget to stay hydrated!
This is such truth
I think thats a worry a lot of us have. The only thing I think that we can do is take one day at a time. Hope is a positive force as long as there are no expectations attached to it, I think?
>big anime tiddyAh, I see you are a man of culture as well.
Nice going! Now may I find the motivation to hang up clothes from moving...! 
Pretty impressive time and distance for a beginner! Running helped with my depression until an old ankle injury started acting up. Glad to hear you're feeling a little better! Keep it up but be gentle with yourself if you can't.
Never been a fan of: getting out of depression is a matter of will power. While that may be true to a certain point, the rest is complex, difficult, and excruciatingly painful. It can take a very, very long time to even get an incremental progress.Just wish more ppl could acknowledge that.
Thank you for sharing this. 2019 was one of the worst years I’ve had and seeing everyone I know posting about all the amazing things that happened to them made me feel so alone and pathetic. But this made me feel positive, for the first time in a long while. :)
Interesting, because I have been to therapy for 3 years and have wanted to kill myself more since I started.
I have been wanting to do that myself!!! Your garden is beautiful!
At least that pizza looks delicious. Whenever I go on a no eating kick, I drink a lot of protein shakes, and whenever I feel like eating again I make sure to treat myself to something yummy
Anger should be here.I am so angry that my life sucks and I can’t do anything to fix it.
I sorted by new and I just happened to stumble on here, but fucking good going mate.You go.
This shit hit home 
This is 100% true. As I'm recovering I'm literally learning who I am and what I like.  My personal style has even just undergone a complete reversal. It's a wild ride! 
I'm in Skopje, Macedonia. Tricky situation, I'm Pakistani but I live in the UK. My husband is Indian and on Thursday he had to fly back to India to start a new passport / visa application. It's been a week and I applied for my new UK visa but just waiting and in limbo now. Been feeling quite depressed because this was supposed to be a 4 day holiday and I'm on day 11 with no idea when I'm going home, and when my husband will get to London (it'll take him at least 2-3 weeks). Sorry, a longish answer to a short question :) just trying to keep my spirits up
I think it's because a semicolon is in between a comma and a period in strength. You dont want to continue the same story (comma) but you dont want everything to end, either (period). Its like starting a new chapter in the same book (your life).Anyway, that's just my take on it; may not be the true reason
My depressive self just wants to say,"At least you're thin"
Wtf. Did they give a reason or just a ban notification?
People do not die when you speak of the good they do. And none of them are dead as well. These are the things that make a good life. Where at least one person mourns and speaks good of you. And having this is easier than it seems, if you merely express your feelings and passions in whatever way you see fit.I wish they and others knew to cherish these small things, and see their potential. But we all do. 
 Thank You! I freaking needed this.
Apparently it does.
Merry christmas my man
I feel bad for the young generation. You guys see so much through your phones, so much success, achievement and perfect life from a very young age. It all messes with you big time, that's where majority of your anxiety and depression comes from. You compare yourselves with your instagram feeds every day and that sets you up for a life of always being in the state of dissatisfaction.The biggest lesson you have to learn is NOT how to be the most successful person out there but how to be able to step back, chill out, take a deep breath and appreciate the moment you are in and everything you have around you.
It's not silly at all to celebrate & you should not undermine your achievement or the effort it took!! :D This internet stranger is very proud of you!!
Needed this today. Thank you.
Chronic depression has a huge impact on cognitive function. https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/sad-depression-affects-ability-think-201605069551
Dang this just about made me cry haha
Robin Williams also had a type of dementia. No one wants to live with that. There is no cure. 
Lol
Lovely, thank you.
I’ve given up trying. I’m so tired. I’m so exhausted from fighting my own mind. I don’t have the strength to explain anymore. I’ve just isolated myself so that I don’t affect anyone else’s life and no one can get hurt from my hurt. 
Feeling it, #blessed
Doing it right now..
I just watched. Very peaceful and relaxing. Thank you.
I shaved my head last year because I was going through a tough time.  I recommend it.
Ill try man,ill try.  but please you be happy to, i want you to be too.
From a certain point of view
Keep goin man you got this. Your damn right though, it won't beat you.
Great message dude. Glad to see that you were feeling better today!
I'm extremely proud of you. I know how this feels. I'm sure your room looks so great now. I bet it feels so good to have all that mess of the floor too, haha. I should probably clean my room actually.
It's not love. It's a constant feeling of inferiority, which makes me going extra mile to prove I'm not completely worthless. 
Glad to see you back making videos!
Not sure if this is the right place for this. Saw someone post this and it really resonates with me. Was kinda what I needed to hear today, thought maybe it might help someone else feel a little less alone in the struggle. 
Ya know this is completely true. You all should be proud of being able to get out of bed in the morning, taking a shower, getting dressed, eating properly and going to work/class. Like sure everyone does it but that doesn’t make it any easier! I’m proud I made it through a stressful week without braking down or self harming! I’m proud of you all! 
I love you too, your a beautiful human! ❤️❤️❤️
Sunday mornings would work for me! What time though? I have problems getting up, and getting to sleep :P  I think you’re doing some really great for the community. Thank you :)
As someone who is exhausted from always having to catch myself in those moments, this sheet is SO powerful. Thank you for posting this.
You may enjoy r/wholesomepics 
I needed this. I've really struggled to get into a good teeth brushing routine over the past 5 years and swing from brushing several times a day to not brushing for a week or so at a time. Thank you.Also sorry about your situation and I hope the finances of it don't cripple you too much x
Psychic ass motherfucker
You should watch Netflix, Living with Yourself.  It really made me think about the duality of myself.  30 years of depression with only a few times of peace and strang strange normalcy.  I have been so depressed for so long that I believe I have forgotten the happy, bold, comfortable me. The show has made me see a glimps of the other me and view him in action. Feed that guy. Stand up straight. Style my hair. Smile. Love others truly, love is an action verb. These are new actions I will fight that other guy with.
Dogs are so happy. For no reason. They really live in the moment and don't get wrapped up in thinking about the future too much like humans do. I think that's the greatest thing my dog has taught me. Be in this moment and find at least 1 good thing to wag your tail at in the moment
That’s pretty cool ngl
True words!!! The more you worry the more likely sth bad will happen!
I do, at this moment the only thing keeping me here is my cat.
We appreciate you too! Your videos are always uplifting and the support is fantastic. We’re here to support you too!
I am glad to see this posted. I am not proud to admit it, but during some of the worst times of my depression and being homeless on the streets, it became increasingly difficult to maintain dental hygiene. Years later I sincerely regret it because i have permanent damage to my teeth. It truly has become a blight on my self esteemDO NOT MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE PLEASE
Your the hero we all need
I don’t understand how people could honestly go online and comment about her, a real life human going through puberty, and say that she’s doing poorly because of her zits and weight flux. Fuck the haters, Sophie. You’re human too, you deserve love. And ps, team Sansa forever. I kneel only to her.
Your kids are really lucky. Not only do they have a parent who is willing to put their mental health second to their child. But they’re also getting an excellent example on how to combat depression!I hope that sun hits you, and you enjoy your 4th <3
That’s how we keep pushing friend .things are so fucking hard in this world where we can’t take all this pressure and annoyance .thats how we become stronger .you got this man if you feel like the world is throwing nothing but hard jabs we have to keep pushing even if it gets harder and more painful.I don’t know what your going through but your not the only one that feels that way homie. Trust the random stranger online that’s telling you that whatever it that your going through it’s gonna get better! Just don’t give up on yourself or how strong you are !
Yay, that's great.&#x200B;Probably the best thing that's going to happen to any of us this week.
once i saw on someones youtube feed a video about a police officer who tried to stop people from jumping the golden gate bridge. in the video he said the people he spoke to were often in a state of complete hopelessness, that nothing would change and there was noone who understood them. often the one thing that gets them to change their mind is if the officer or whoever is there just listens to them. saying the stereotypical words of comfort didnt always work. ironic. there isnt much else to say, but please dont kill yourself its not worth it, or please dont kill yourself there is light at the end of this tunnel, or please dont kill yourself, we can help you and you are loved. ....this world is so sad, why do we resort to these sad things. you dont have to die just because you are going through hard times...
Thank you for the kind words! While all my days aren’t super bad, I have moments or cycles where I can become super depressed. I usually get deep into my thoughts and I just feel super down or pissed or whatever I’m feeling at that moment. I really do feel and still feel like I’m alone at times. It’s just hard, but I’m willing to fight the good fight cause life isn’t all that bad as it seems. I wish I can give you a hug also and provide some support, but I think the words help and make me feel just a bit reassured and hopeful.
Love the show:) Another show which really really helps me distract and calm down is the office.This one time I was struggling real bad,cutting myself wanting to drink(but in a weird way didn’t want to,like I had decided not to drink to sleep that day).I tried listening to podcasts,music.Nothing helped.I finally fell asleep to the sound of Michael Scott.I am not sure if I am making any sense but that show really helped me.
Well I need to thank them :)
This is the hardest thing to believe. 
Rest in peace.People sicken me
It's all blocks for me, can someone tell me what is there?
This comic felt relatable... and I wanted to share... but I may delete this later if the consensus is that this comic doesn't belong here. 
Unless you or someone you know have experienced the symptoms of mental illness (anxiety, depression, OCD and others), it can be very hard to explain the associated physical and mental symptoms.Those who refuse to acknowledge mental illness may be scared of what they are feeling or refuse to ignore what is a problem for millions of individuals and those around them. Everyone here can empathize with your symptoms and how you feel.Don't let those deniers get you down
This is what got me through a very difficult time and I tell everyone the same. Micro goals and targets. Set yourself something small to do, I mean very small. Force yourself to do it and build on it little by little each day. You'll get there.
[This is the post that has been updated!](https://www.reddit.com/r/depression_help/comments/a45f7l/my_room_has_been_like_this_for_2_months_and_i/?st=JPL8JJ4E&sh=a5a59b7e) Thanks again for all of the advice, I have an appointment with my therapist today so now we have an accomplishment to talk about, yay.
You have to break the flow chart somehow. Do you watch Big Bang Theory? If so, remember the episode where Sheldon creates a flow chart to figure out how to make friends? He gets caught in a loop so Howard makes a counter to escape from the loop where he finds the least objectionable activity to do with someone he's trying to make friends with. From experience, I would say it's really difficult to break the right side of this chart, so let's focus on the left side. After we wake up we can get washed up and get dressed and eat a healthy breakfast. This sets us up to make better choices throughout the day. Next I would say, do something positive or at least useful. The next part we have control over too. Instead of hating ourselves, being negative, feeling like we're not enough.... tell ourselves we did a good job today, try not to compare to others, reframe negative thoughts in a more positive way, give ourselves credit for what we CAN and DO accomplish.
I needed this too. I didn't know how much i needed this until now. Life is bleak and dark and I have been looking for a stick hiding behind a fake smile for years. I don't ask for help for fear of seeming weak and small. In weak moments I have peered over the edge of life and saw and end to the suffering. To finally have peace from everything. I always turned my back on that final sleep looking for my own will to survive and keep fighting. No one has handed me a stick or anything until today.  I have been in the deepest parts of depression in my life recently. I am scared and I am alone in my suffering. Closer to that edge than I have ever been before. Now i feel like I have some hope. Someone found the words that I truly needed to hear. Thank you. 
I've been silently crying at my desk at work all day. I'm just trying to make it home where I can lay in the fetal position in my dark room and be as alone as I feel. No tv, no phone, just trying to live with myself...which seems impossible to do. 
I feel this. Today I had a panic attack whilst in public and I was really having a bad day. My mum then shouts at me saying that I “ruined” her day because I wasn’t happy. Felt pretty bad. About the isolation, that’s the hardest thing to deal with. You see that your ‘friends’ are fine without you and you start to wonder if they ever even needed you. I can’t offer advice but I can offer a person that understands and that feels what your feeling.
I don’t know who you are, but I needed this and I thank you. I’ve been stuck ina runt for a couple months now. Wanting to just die and let it all be over with. But after reading it, I have a different mindset. Once again thank you kind stranger
I'm loving the continuous positivity from you 
Nice of you to post this.  If anyone reading this needs someone to reach out to, send me a pm.  I wish you the best.
Make a checklist. It will help you feel good to cross them off.Put all pillows on the bed. Make that bed.Then straighten the shelves. Make everything stand up in one direction.Put all clothes in the laundry bag.Put all trash in a trash bag. Toss it.Grab another large trash bag. Put all that clutter in it.Take out one thing at a time from the bag, and do something about it.Look around and feel better.
This was a really really good piece. Thank you for sharing it.
If only one of us could have offered him a hug... I'm so sorry for your loss.
I have done this before and I didnt realise how shitty and manipulative it was. The feelings were real, i did want to die, but looking back on it, it was more a cry for help. I wanted someone to care. But that doesnt excuse it. I spent a lot time reflecting on my past behaviour. As you said, it is toxic and unhealthy.  Maybe you should tell him this directly and he may realised then. I honestly didnt realise when i was younger and did this, until i saw threads and discussions on manipulative behaviour.
This is not the cheer we want... But the cheer we needed. 
I love this guy, purely a beautiful soul. Interesting fact: he used to be a drill instructor. 
I always look at things this way. It's helped a lot
Thank you I needed to hear that today.
I'm very sorry for such a loss. Suicide really does have a horrible ripple effect. Something I try to remember when my physical pain is unrelenting and I want it to stop. 
Just in case this gives an idea to someone, I got free therapy with a psychology student. In my country you can look for psychologist that have students working with them at their offices, and they will give you therapy for free. They will have to discuss your situation with their teachers and whatever, but I couldn't afford anything else. Maybe they won't be as experienced as others, but they have support and people watching them. I couldn't pay for a regular therapist, and this quite literally saved my life.Also there's NGOs and stuff like that. What I mean is, I thought I couldn't find help, but then I did my homework and found a way to do it. And I'm not specially smart or anything. So I'd like to encourage everyone to fight hard and look for altenatives, because maybe you could find something. Maybe I was lucky, but why wouldn't someone else?
&#x200B;>theres alsso people living worse than me so i dont have any right to feel sadA lot of people from all over the world get feelings like this. But every body has the right to feel whatever they're feeling; even if you were the most wealthy person on the planet and had the best life, you would still have the right to feel sad. Your situation is difficult and it's normal to feel overwhelmed/ like everything is too much sometimes. Stay strong friend. I know it's difficult to find motivation, but keep powering through and you can make it <3
this is literally my situation right now
I read it.  Not a mess.  You are doing good... dont fall on bad habits, keep your pride about you, reach out if you need somebody.You arent alone.
Reading some of those notes and comparing to my own negative thoughts I realise that we're really hung up on very small shit. If someone were to ask me of all the physical things about myself that I feel one of them would be chubby and short toes, but if you take a step back that's some really stupid shit to beat yourself up about, and yet we still do it for some reason.
Yeah, it's the same for me. A new year really makes you think about the future. Good luck for 2020, I hope things get better for you.
Must admit a little surprising. Could do with that if i had a car or a job or a decent foot. Haha. Its a refreshing take on dartmoor. I only know the basic saddle tor and hay tor and hound tor. But its another good idea to add to the list of good ideas.
Every small bit helps, a clean home (ish) helps my depression a lot. Great job for trying!!! 
Hahah I’ve come to realize finding a psychologist is one of the hardest things you can possibly do in life. Just gotta be consistent and follow up though. 
Nawww congratulations!...you look absolutely stunning
Good for you! Whenever I see something with anxiety crack a smile I have to upvote :) 
Fuck yeah! You got this and you're going to rock it!
Just as an ironic heads-up, I stay up at night worrying about my students who miss class and lose contact. Oh, anxiety, you troublesome bitch!
I hope they continue to look up for you! Happy cake day!!
"Sorry I couldn't come, I was busy"**"Meh I wasn't there either, what were you up to?"**"Staying up til 5 AM browsing the internet to distract myself then lying in bed as the sun rose with my heart pounding in my ears, trying to cry or scream or look for some kind of exit from this horrible feeling, but instead just gritting my teeth and violently cringing in the foetal position because of every responsibility I've shirked and every opportunity I've wasted."**"Neat, me too!"**
I really needed to see this today. Thank you. 
Meeeeeeee. I keep promising myself to switch over to green tea, which has less caffeine, but I love the taste of coffee too much.
[deleted]
plot twist: your cat enjoys your panic attacks because your tears are delicious to her
My mother, who knows I have anxiety, has done this. “Call me later please.“Frantically calling, ask what’s wrong “Nothing, just wanted to say hi...”
I hope this inspires some of you to do something regardless of your anxiety telling you not to. Don’t let it hold you back from doing new, uncomfortable things. I hope you all are well, and even though I’m on vacation, please feel free to message me if you just need to talk. 
Great job!!!
That's amazing!! Don't stop drawing that's literally incredible. Make some of your own stuff, I wanna see it!
Good job with this. Understanding your anxiety and how it makes you feel is a great way to deal with it.
When I'm anxious I'm very short tempered and I feel so bad about it afterwards :(
[deleted]
I'm proud of you!
You should sell these... Cuz I would fur sure buy one. Awesome work!
❤️ proud of you, too!
I wanted to give back to all the amazing people who encouraged me to do this on reddit. So with the help of my husband who is a clinical psychologist who specialises in Anxiety i made a walkthrough about how to do exposure like this! I hope it helps other people to live bigger brighter lives. Would love to hear what you all think of it!Here’s the link:I’m so grateful to a number of reddit contributors who talked me through doing this and inspired me. I’m growing so much with your support. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. 
Way to go!! I know how daunting that can seem, it took me a long time to be able to do a workout outside of my house, let alone on a run or something away from people/medical help. Keep up the good work, and be patient with yourself!
Thank you for this.
Or thinking about an embarassing moment that wasn't even that bad that happened two years ago that no one remembers but you
Been going through a bad breakup as of late. My dog doesn’t do kisses or pets, but when she sees I’m crying she comes and makes me hold her paw. 
I’ll take one please 
The moment you become aware you’re not anxious is when u become anxious again 
Oh my gosh such a sweet kitty
beautiful photo  pets are very life giving, they help me too. 
reminds me so much of :http://data.whicdn.com/images/45760500/funny-depression-comic-smashed-hand_large.jpg
To all other college students on this sub: Good luck out there, you anxious little fucks.
Or worried you’ll sleep through your alarm
It's just 5 in the morning and I haven't slept and I couldn't stop thinking about it so I made it and now I think I'll be able to sleep lol. Have a good day reddit :)edit: Thank all you guys! edit2: Jeez louise. I feel so inspired and encouraged. Don't knock the power of reddit. You guys have made one of the worst weeks of my life turn into something positive and I seriously love all of you nice little bastards for doing that. It's amazing and awful that so many of you feels the same way. If nothing else I'm glad this subreddit is here to bring some community to the people who need it most. 
this is the realest shit that i’ve heard this week
I'm sure you know; but just a reminder that you're definitely not alone. It's like when you get sick and you actually enjoy it because it forces your body and mind to slow down... anxiety is a cunt.On that note, it is possible(so I've heard, and have seen limited results myself) that it is possible to tame some of these symptoms through cognitive behavioural therapy(you can download an app on your phone), and meditation techniques (:..The only reason that I've only seen limited results is because I have trouble committing to them.
The brain zap bay when you miss a dose can get pretty rough
“Sunday scaries” I usually use Sunday’s for cleaning, laundry, food shopping, small errands,and prepping for the week just so I can try and avoid the anxiety.
Proud of you!!!!! 
I love it. I hate this brand of anxiety so so much because it's so hard to express, no one understands and you can't make them understand. Its so validating to see it expressed creatively.
Great job! I hope things get easier.
That's what I've been doing right now. (but I live with housemates) 
Legit me whenever i have to send a work email 
I am not usually susceptible to these types of messages, but this one got me in the feels. Thanks OP ❤️
Reminds me of Adele.
One time, 13 years ago, I did this to check and a woman near me said, “Yes. You’re bothering me.”I have never recovered. 
"But what if I am lazy and just making up the mental illness as an excuse..." said his anxiety to his mind."Obviously I am a completely worthless bumb, and should just kill myself, acting mentally ill to hide my laziness." Quipped his depression. "Guys the OP might have a point, we do argue a lot, and you depression like to throw the suicide thing on the table a lot." Said his possibly true inner voice. "But whos to say the depression isn't the true inner voice and the inner voice isn't just playing a trick on you trying to get you to stay alive through torture? " responded what he thought was his anxiety, but was now unsure if it was his true inner voice. "Yes obviously you should listen to me and just go step in front of that train tommorow." Said what might be the true inner voice, or maybe something else entirely. "No that's scary! Stay home, in bed." What fucking voice is that? "You're obviously a lazy piece of shit." Said one of the voices that all bled together in the end. *sits in place not making any decisions or doing anything, the world assumes hes lazy, and yet part of him believes it* 
been doing yoga. it actually kind of helps. 
I've had death anxiety ever since my grandma died at a young age too, so I can relate :(Best of luck hun <3
Yes. That or Youtube. I frequently will close Reddit then open it 5 seconds later. I do this with the apps I’m on a lot.
Hey congratulations! But you mattered before this as well. You don't need to have a job to be valid
Oh my Goddd!!! Well done, I’m so happy for you!!
That is a very common feeling.  Anxiety does make us withdraw from life.
This is everything. I fucking love this post. You gave me motivation. Thank you and congratulations!!! Keep grinding.
Yes.I **hate** phone calls, I prefer to not pick it up and let them message me instead to let me know what's up.I think I have a big *thump* on my chest everytime my ringtone starts blaring
I needed this. Thank you!
I’m at your “before” now and hope I can someday get to your “after.” Congratulations!!! 
Also, limit your time on Reddit. Reddit can be great for a lot of things, but it also is a huge vortex of negativity and judgment. Take a breather from all of that because it doesn’t represent the real world. 
This comic is great. You are great for trying to help. Everything is great.
No one is judging you. Congratulations on making a post!
Ugh yes! My boyfriend is one of those people. And if he worries it's only for like a day then he moves past it. It's something I hope to eventually pick up from him. 
Lmao oh boy this is true
Stay strong my friend! Us living in the west dont want war either. The public dosent want a war, and the US goverment and the rest of the west knows it! Dont worry! I highly doubt there will be a war. Will pray for you and all of Iran and the Middle East!
Thank you for this, I think I forget far too often.Hope you have a blessed day too!
Preach
I do that all the time because I am constantly worried about offending someone. I wish I wasn't, but I am.
This was at the top of my feed when I opened reddit, thanks for the nice little boost. 
[deleted]
Hello bunny named chicken eating lettuce while wearing a banana beanie. You are so cute. 
It must suck to be a celebrity struggling with anxiety and depression, and I don't mean that sarcastically.A lot of people are under the misconception that if your life is good, you are immune to mental illnesses, especially depression. People think celebrities with depression are just sad because of minor stuff, but mental illnesses don't care about wealth or status.
That’s amazing! Congrats!
I haven't posted anything yet cause I'm anxious that my anxiety isn't bad enough or like the kind of anxiety I get isn't relatable enough, so I start to type things and delete it cause they sound dumb. 
It's a vicious cycle. I'm in law school and the amount of stress leading into finals makes me incredibly unproductive and I'm out of days I can be absent from school. Even when I try to relax I feel super guilty about not doing work.I finally did take a full weekend break last week when a friend of mine came to visit and I was able to relax without freaking out about all the work I needed to do. That break (hopefully) gave me the energy to continue trucking on. 2 more weeks and my second year of law school is over. Only 1 more to go *sigh*
Awesome! It’s the small victories that make a big difference.
Yep. I'm getting worse as I try to manage my anxiety too. Like I put it off till it's over due even if it is something so simple.
Luckily my anxiety has kept me from going to the dentist for years and enabled horrible hygiene so if I clench it hurts. Did I win..?
Good job!I haven't grocery shopped proper in a month. 
All the time yes and it’s not just talking ,it’s when I text as well
I get these almost every day especially when I’m not distracted or engaged in an activity, especially when driving. I think it’s due to boredom or something. Anyways can confirm this is how it feels (at least to me), especially the dying part. Awesome pic thanks for sharing!
Wow congrats on the progress you made to finally see a therapist. Bravo! I hope future sessions will be better for you. All the best to your therapy sessions.
I've always thought of it like this:Depression is your whole body slowing down (no energy, eat less, sleep more, etc). You're get-up-and-go is gone. Anxiety is your mind sped up. (more thoughts, more worries, more fears, etc)When you add slowed body to sped up mind everything becomes off kilter and unbalanced. You feel like you're fighting yourself at every moment and getting nothing accomplished despite so much energy being exerted. 
Anxiety is the disease of broken dreams It will prevent you from going to college  or doing well in school It will prevent job interviews, meetings, etcIt will hinder you from meeting others and dating Make the decision today: give in to the anxiety and remain in the safe zone, or challenge it and routinely put yourself outside of your comfort zone Do one thing each day that scares you.
When my husband isn't home by like 30 minutes past when he usually gets off work I start thinking he's died in a horrible car accident on the way home.  But I'm afraid to text or call him in case he checks his phone while driving and gets into a horrible car accident and dies.He's come home to me pacing a rut in the living room floor too many times, and in the last couple weeks has started texting me the minute he knows he might not make it out on time.  I feel like a crazy person, but I also appreciate it so so much.
So true! Especially when dealing with customer service people. You have no idea what they are dealing with on a regular basis. Jerk supervisors, annoying coworkers, other shitty customers. Plus whatever is going on in their personal lives. But they are forced to wear a smile and be super nice no matter what they're dealing with. Some are fighting back tears their entire shifts and drive home crying, and all for shitty pay with little appreciation.As someone who not only deals with anxiety and works customer service I try my best to give back a little bit. Not just with a decent tip but saying things like "you're amazing!", "thank you SSOO much!", and sometimes, when I'm really happy with the service "I love you!" You'd be amazed the smiles you get from these small words.
Exactly what happens to me. I did it on school and now I do it with work...
I'm more depressed then anxious, but use video games to trick myself into a sense of progress. I may not have gotten the dishes done yesterday, but I did defeat the Hornet in Hollow Knight.
im so proud wow this is an achievement!
yes. It's part of the illness. The craziest thing is that people with Anxiety live with so much emotion bombarding them all the time and they are dealing with it all the time yet when another person is "slightly off" we freak out and blame ourselves. Calm down. People have good and bad days and act accordingly. If someone has a problem with you the protocol is for them to bring it to your attention or suck it up. The end. 
Anxiety does weird things to you. I've very suddenly gotten anxious whenever I see something that has the surreal anxiety driven vibe of nightmares I have had. Maybe drawing it has a stronger effect. 
Here's an upvote from me. Don't let Reddit cause you more anxiety. Even if people don't upvote your posts or comments, doesn't mean they don't matter or aren't valuable.
As someone who gets bad phone anxiety I can definitely say you nailed it! Now go eat your pizza in sweet, sweet victory.
I definitely feel this. It can be a mix for me though sometimes it’s a wave of being terrified of people not liking me so I end up as you were describing or I feel as though I’m putting on a show for everyone.
I once drew something very similar to this, but obviously not as well. I love that we both came to the same visual description of such a difficult emotion that we all face 
My gut tells me I’m having a heart attack almost everyday for months so I don’t listen to it anymore lol.
Thank you. The world just seems so overwhelming and awful at the moment. But I know we can get through it, and you can too.
Congratulations! Please tell us your secret! :) I'm still housebound from PTSD and panic disorder... I can't wait to be able to do this! Great job!
Funny, I just found out I was accepted into graduate school, and this is all I can think of. I'm not even a little happy.
Damn I feel this way too much
Only 86 are totally illogical - sounds like a good day :)
I think you should make this topic off limits with your mom. She clearly won't change her mind and it'll only upset you to have her go on like this.Obviously that's easier said than done but it'll be easier if you don't see her in person much.
100% know how you feel. It gets so tiring! I don’t know how to stop doing it.
