Depression for me is a constant feeling of wanting to go home, but no matter where I am, I am never home. Even when I’m at my physical home.
It’s a constant sense of wanting to go somewhere else. I’d feel better if i was at this place. Then you go there and then it’s the same exact feeling, just in a different physical location. I feel mentally homeless and I just want to go home.Edit: I didn’t think this would get traction and that’s my first gold. Thanks buddy.
Depression is so much worse if you live with your parents.
I can't hide, I can't cry out loud, they don't understand me if I can't clean my room or can't go out. They watch me fall apart and criticise me while it happens.
Shout out to the particular hell that is functional depression.
This is me. Don’t get me wrong, it’s better than don’t-leave-my-bed-for-a-week depression. I am grateful I can be an independent person. But there is something uniquely horrible about being able to go to work every day, occasionally clean up after yourself, pay your bills, generally put yourself together enough to look like a human being... but that’s it. Nothing else. No social life. No hobbies. Constantly battling your mind. And being absolutely fucking exhausted all the time.
A stranger just saved my life...
I woke up today wanting to die. I was planning on doing it after school so I decided school was pointless to go to. I walked to the mall by my school and went to a Kneader's and ordered french toast. French toast has always been my favorite so I figured it would be a good last thing to eat. I pondered a ton about my life and what it is I really want. I felt super empty but also my mind was racing with thoughts. I had convinced myself I needed to finish my life today. I had been thinking for about half an hour when an elderly man sat across from me and gave me a hot chocolate. He said that he ordered it for me because he could tell I needed it. He told me "I don't know what you're going through, but life will get better." And then he left. And then I cried. And now I'm back at school, and I think I want to live. Edit: Thank you to everyone who responded to this and messaged me and just were so kind. <3 
I was going to kill myself tonight
I wrote a suicide note earlier in the morning. I spent most of the day doing things that used to make me happy: getting coffee, walking in the park, listening to music, etc. I ate my “last meal” while listening to Bob Marley.About an hour before I was going to kill myself, my friend from college messaged me and asked to play Xbox. We ended up reminiscing on good times, and laughing our asses off. It felt nice to feel like somebody cared about me. We’re planning on playing tomorrow too.I don’t feel as bad as I did earlier today and I also am glad that I didn’t kill myself.Edit: thank you for the gold, friend:)Edit: thank you for the silver, friend:) I’m currently sitting at a coffee shop, reading all the kind messages everyone has sent. It means a lot to me
Does anyone ever feel okay for a while, then a wave of depression just hits you like a truck?
Recently I thought I was beginning to feel better. Not quite happy, but just sort of... I don’t know, content? But my depression always seems to come back, sometimes stronger than others. This has happened in the past too. I’m worried that one day the gust of depression will blow too strongly and the branch i’m hanging onto will snap. Or maybe not. That could just be the apathy speaking though. Anybody else really frustrated by this? It feels like i’m always walking a razors edge between being fine, and being depressed and one misstep causes me to lose my balance. Ugh. Edit: evidently, there are quite a few people who experience similar feelings. I just want to say that it makes me happy in a sad sort of way to know that we are all going through something similar in our lives. It makes things less lonely.
Living with depression is like running a marathon with a broken leg and then having everyone run past you and say “Yeah, yeah, broken leg boo-hoo, we’re all tired.” And then run the same fucking race everyday. The cycle.
You’re depressed!You’re okay, it’ll take time, but you’re okay!What the hell is taking so long, life blows, you’re depressed again!You woke up and got dressed today, it’s looking up from here?SIKE, you fucking idiot, did you truly believe your depression was done with you? You’re dumber than you lead yourself to believe!Okay, we’re okay, we’re gonna make it. I just gotta stay strong.Oop, you fucked up once today, I’m dragging your ass back into the dark. OVER AND OVER AND OVER! Is there really only one way out? I don’t know if I wanna die, I got a brother who may need me one day. I’m tired. So tired, man.
If 10 years ago someone told me that in 10 years I would be routinely sitting in my room all day doing nothing to make myself a successful man but eat, sleep and use my phone/pc and sometimes go out for a lonely aimless walks, I would never believe them
But here I am, 24 years old man and doing exactly that.
"Depression isn't always at 3am when you're alone with only the thoughts in your head. Sometimes it's at 3pm, when you're surrounded by friends in the middle of laughing." This is high functioning depression. So many people don't get it.
I look normal on the outside, but that's because I try very hard to.
Does anyone else get extremely bummed out seeing people younger than them doing more with their life?
I hate being told: "It'll get better when you're older." No it fucking won't. I've waited for over a decade for things to get better & they haven't. It's especially not true when I see people younger than me living better, happier, & more interesting lives. Clearly that means I'm a failure & I just can't properly do this game we call life.Just today someone I know who's younger than me just managed to find their own apartment with their SO. I can't do that now & if that doesn't scream that I'm a pathetic loser, I don't know what does.
I want to be alone, but not lonely. I want friends but hate socializing. Want success, but have no desire to be productive. I’m lost in my own conscience.
Thank you all for the supportive messages. It’s heartwarming to know that I’m not alone. I know we can all get through this together. I love each and every single one of you 
Does anyone else stay up super late to avoid the next day?
I don’t know if that makes sense. What I mean is that I stay up as late as possible wasting time because I know that if I go to sleep, I’ll wake up and have to go to school. I usually go to bed at around 3:30am and get up at 6am and it’s destroying me, I’ve been doing this for months and I’m physically weak and exhausted constantly because of it but my depression and anxiety demand it. And they always seem to get their way. Edit: I’m really glad that this spoke to so many people, it feels good knowing I’m not alone. Sending lots of love to you all. This isn’t easy but I believe in you ❤️
I wouldn't commit suicide but if I had an option to suddenly stop existing I would choose it
Does anyone else feel this way?  This has been crossing my mind a lot latelyEDIT: I just want to thank everyone for the thoughtful, kind comments I've been recieving.  It's been a nice change and I really appreciate it.  You guys are the best.  :)
Had anyone noticed memory decline from depression?
Just curious if anyone else affected by this problem also noticed quite a big cognitive decline. Or if anyone has noticed a cognitive decline and managed to build themselves back up to that previous cognitive level.
High-functioning depression: I feel like I'm living a double life.
I read a lot of posts on here of people struggling with daily, debilitating depression that plagues every aspect of their lives, making it difficult to do small things like even take a shower. I feel that I am on the opposite side of the spectrum and wanted to share that it is equally as horrible.From an outsider's perspective, I appear to be a very happy and stable individual. I have a financially secure job and I go to work every day and not only try my best but actively try to get along with others and make people laugh every day. My coworkers like me, and some look up to me. No one would think I have any problems at all. However, I feel like I am hidden behind a veil, and when I come home from work and when I am in the privacy of my home, I am in such crippling depression. I have such terrible episodes of sadness. I hate myself. I over-analyze everything stupid I do or say throughout the day and I replay it in my mind constantly and belittle myself. I don't feel proud of myself for any of my accomplishments and genuinely don't know why anyone even likes me. And yet I still get up every day, live this routine, and put on a facade like I am okay. It feels like I am living a double life that I cannot escape.
Does anyone else feel normal one minute then wish you were dead the next?
I feel decent. I'm watching YouTube or I'm just browsing the internet and all of a sudden my mind is like: "Everything in life requires effort and I'm way too exhausted to try. I have a long life ahead of me but it's too much of a bother. I don't want to live."Even if I'm feeling optimistic about my future and, "what if everything really does work out the way I want it to?" I feel like it's way too tiring to live the life I want and all I want is to sleep and do nothing.Everyone says life is short but to me it seems so long and burdening and I don't want to do it. I think if I knew that I would inevitably drop dead in 10 years then I would feel a bit more motivated, but just knowing that it's likely that I'll have to wait 50 more fucking years before I might finally drop dead is like a giant weight on my shoulders.
I cried in front of my family today. They ended up comparing their issues to mine and tell me that other people have it worse.
Thank you, that really helps. Now I feel ten times worse.
does anyone else have a constant feeling of not fitting in or belonging anywhere?
i feel this way around everyone, friends, family, coworkers, anywhere i go. i just always feel like i’m in the background. but at the same time i like going unnoticed so i don’t have to talk to anyone and be in the spotlight..
My therapist died
She was only 67. She told me every so often about how she always thought she'd end up with her ex husband again and how she thought they were meant to be together in the end, I don't know if she ever got the chance to tell him how she felt.I'm extremely shaken up, but I think she wouldn't want me to be sad for her.In her memory I'm going to tell the people I love how I feel, give my dog a hug, and remember that she is in my corner rooting for me when I feel like nobody else is.Edit: thanks everyone for your kind words, I feel less alone about this now. In lieu of a funeral she wanted people to donate to her dog's vet clinic because she was a huge animal lover. Maybe toss a few donations toward your local clinic or shelter to help spread her love even further
Do you ever just stop dead in the middle of whatever you're doing and feel a great wave of existential dread/self-hatred
Happens to me a lot. Cooking, walking to class, brushing my teeth...sometimes I just stop for like a minute, feel a tremendous sense of self-hatred and suicidal ideation, and then continue on as if nothing ever happened.
The worst part of depression is waking up and the first thought that pops in your head is how shitty you feel, alone and already struggling to get through the day before it’s even started.
I can’t even remember the last time i woke up excited for anything.edit: Wanted to thank everyone for their kind words and sharing your own stories. Definitely glad to have this community it helps to know we aren’t alone even though it may feel that way.
Does anyone have a period where they feel really motivated and see things clearly, only to crash even harder the more you try to better yourself, feeling even more depressed than you were originally?
It feels like the harder I try to better myself, the harder it pushes back.
Anyone else ever feel like the “old you” died years ago, and now you’re just limping along as someone you really can’t stand?
Like, the old me wasn’t even that great either but damn 
Becoming a regular at a local coffee shop changed my life
I was depressed, failing school, etc and I decided I should do my homework at a coffee shop one day. I went in and the owner was super nice and asked me if I wanted to join the rewards program and I was really craving community at this point and I was super excited. I kept coming back to the shop to do my homework and the owner and the baristas would always welcome me and they were always happy to see me. I started to get to know everybody there very well and now I consider them all friends. I found that when depressed having different communities helps a lot, and it turns out a lot of the other regulars at coffee shops also are depressed or have other mental illnesses. A two dollar drink can let you stay there for a few hours and by being nice to everyone around you and being somewhat productive on work it can be a really great place to have
Is anyone else strangely sick of being high functioning?
I know that the fact that I can brush my teeth and shower each day and show up to work each day is a blessing with my depression. But I’m also sick of constantly feeling like I’m about to break. I hate nearly downing my pills each night only to wake up the next day to plaster a fake as smile on my face and go to work. Each night I think to myself I can’t go on like this and each day I do. Part of me just somehow wishes I completely gave up and just hit rock bottom. I don’t know. Anyone else feel the same?
2 years since I dropped out of college due to anxiety and depression, I finally signed back up for classes yesterday.
I finally did it guys!!!!! 2 years!! I was so depressed 2 years ago I started skipping classes, I failed every single class I was in. My GPA dropped to a 1.7. I lost my financial aid, which I couldn't go back the next semester without.I spent the last 2 years, becoming more and more depressed because I couldn't afford to go back and I ruined my life over depression. But I finally did it!!!! (with the consistent encouragement of my boyfriend who told me hes going to keep on top of my ass and I'm not allowed to skip class) I still have a year and a half left for my associate's because of how much I failed but it's a start.Edit: I cant believe how many people replied to this!! Thank you all so much for encouraging me, to know I had 100+ people comment to tell me how proud they are makes me even more motivated to do well this semester. Also to all the people who said this post gave them a little kick in the ass to go back, were all going to do amazing :)
When you realize that you have an incredibly easy life but you’re screwing It up for yourself
My life is objectively very easy but my depression makes it all feel like a struggle
Does anyone else get really happy and motivated for a few hours to a few days, just to fall off the edge again?
It feels like I'm on a rollercoaster with 80% super lows and 20% kinda highs..
Does anyone else stay up to 3AM every night wanting to die only to get up for school and start the cycle over again every day?
I'm so tired and I hate everything.
After 1 suicide attempt, and one overdose, I GRADUATED!!!!
I MADE IT. FUCK EVERYONE WHO PUT ME DOWN. FUCK THE BULLIES, FUCK THE CLIQUES, I DID IT. But more importantly, THANK YOU to everyone who kept me going. It brings me to tears thinking about how thankful I am to be here today because of my family, friends, and the wonderful people on this subreddit who helped me when I was down. I feel so immensely proud and happy right now because of my achievements. To all the people struggling through high school and college, there is light at the end of the tunnel. I LOVE YOU ALL!!!!Edit: wow thanks for all the awards, love, and support!
I miss myself
I miss when I was happy and life wasn't pointless.
The worst part of depression is that it's stolen my personality
My actual personality is over the top, fun(in my opinion), confident, and kind. But the depression teams up with social anxiety so that I just don't have enough enough energy to act like who I truly am. I turn into this very flat, monotone, boring, quiet person who I would never want to hang out with or date.It's the main reason I avoid social interaction now - it feels humiliating because I feel like I'm perceived as this pathetic, pitiable, ignorable person. When I'm feeling better and have a little more energy I can act like myself but usually I'm just this shell. It's horrible, like watching the progression of ALS in a loved one; they just slowly fade away until there's nothing left of who they used to be. At least with physical illness or bipolar or whatever you have yourself, that fundamental spark of who you truly are, and you're able to show that and share that with others. I don't even have that privilege. Sorry if this comes off as arrogant or insensitive, this is just how I feel.edit: Guys, thanks so much for all the responses. I appreciate all of you. I didn't know so many people felt the same way, and I'm glad if I was able to help give voice to your struggles. I've had depression my whole life so I've had a lot of time to think about these things. I think it helps to be able to really narrow down what you're feeling. I wish you all luck in getting better.
I wish I could say "I was depressed" the same way I say "I was sick" to explain my absence
I'm so tired of making excuses. I am sick, just in my head.
Don't you just want to sleep and sleep and sleep?
It's the closest thing to dying. This life sucks.
Imagine if the cure to a broken leg was to run a marathon with it. That's what getting help for depression looks like to me.
I'm discouraged today! :D Edit: This is a bit overwhelming. But reading all your comments was lovely. I hope every single one of you struggling will find the light one day. I guess we can run this marathon together if that's what it should come for. You lean on me so your broken leg doesn't hurt as much, and I'll lean on the second person, etc. Have a wonderful day ❤️
We only wish depression was being "sad".
But depression is much more than that. It’s the excuses you have to make when you can’t make that meeting. It’s the friends and family you’ve lost because you can’t explain why. It’s the opportunities that land in everyone else’s lap, that they get to grasp with both hands, while yours slip out of your grasp. It’s the exhaustion that binds your body to your bed. It’s the hatred and resentment you feel towards yourself, towards the world for being the way it is. It’s your proven truth that everything and everyone gets better, except for you. It’s the demon that dragged you down and trapped you in the hellish prison that is your own mind. It’s the ball and chain locked around your neck, choking the life out of you as you trudge through your marathon, while everyone else gets to charge on ahead, unimpeded. It’s the wall that blocked you off from life. It's the leech that sucked out everything positive about your life and clouds your memories. It’s not just being “sad”. And we can only wish it was. *Edited to add: Thank you all for the kind words and awards. I really didn't expect this to blow up as much as it did. I wrote this in an attempt to put my experience with depression into words, and to serve as a reminder of what it feels like, for the times when normal people try to tell me my depression isn't real or otherwise downplay it.*
Keeping in touch with friends is so hard when your brain tells you no one wants to talk to you
I have one friend I text regularly. Everyone else I either think they don't like me or I don't like them.As an introvert by nature this is so dangerous as I end up in a lonely depression spiral since my tendency is to want alone time, but not alone time all the time.EDIT: well with this many upvotes, I guess I don't feel as alone. Hope everyone is doing ok tonight.
Too depressed to have a healthy relationship yet constantly wanting love and affection.
I hate this.
After I revealed I’ve had depression for a very long time, a co-worker told me today that I am the most positive and uplifting person at the office to talk to but she’d known something was wrong because of my eyes.
“Your face lights up, your smile is infectious, but your eyes always look like you’re staring at a freight train while you’re standing on the tracks in front of it.”Man if that didn’t fuck my shit up for the rest of the day
I almost killed myself today
I just broke down. That just overwhelming feeling of worthlessness and self hate just maxed out. I sat in my dark living room sobbing and trying to decide if I should write anything. Before I could do anything my cat came and jumped on me. He pressed his face to mine and I just snapped back. I’m trying so hard to get better. I’m glad my cat jumped on me. That sweet little guy saved me.Edit: I want to thank everyone for their kind words. I didn’t expect to receive so much kindness. For those wondering, I am currently seeing a therapist and psychiatrist for mental health and medication management.To the few people who said hurtful things. My story may be “cliche and boring” but it’s still my fucking life. It’s my experience, I can’t change it to make it more exciting or interesting for you. It wouldn’t be real then. To those who told me to try again and that I’m a failure. You don’t have to tell me that. I know but I’ve never been more happy to fail at something in my life.
When I’m sitting on my ass doing nothing, I feel useless and depressed. When I’m actually doing something, i think about how I’d rather be just relaxing at home
Just a loop of unhappiness, really hope I can fix it soon.  I wanna know what the fuck happened to my motivation and care for life.
Has anyone else went to see a therapist to get help from their severe depression, but once you get there your mind is so hazy and forgetful that it makes it extremely difficult to explain your experience?
I found that a lot of times in the past I would be rushed out the office with crappy advice that I was already “trying” to do and then I panic and try to desperately get everything out by the end of the session. It’s hard to open up about it when I’m having an episode because the symptoms of pure confusion, difficulty thinking and focusing, MEMORY LOSS and just plain blankness of mind makes everything so frustrating... *For not from depression, sorry
Do you ever feel that the deeper in depression you are, the dumber you become?
Today I was feeling extremely low. I don't know but my I feel like my ability to process information and write has been decreased. I'm just so angry and irritable. I hate this feeling
It’s not that I want to kill myself. But if I die I wouldn’t be upset.
I don’t think i could ever kill myself but that doesn’t mean I don’t want to die. It’d just be so much easier than disappointing everyone I love if something just happened to me and I died. I know it isn’t right to think like this but I can’t stop.Edit: this blew up, it’s kinda bittersweet knowing so many others feel the same.Edit 2: thank you all so much for the words of encouragement. I’m home now and would love to reply to all of them but I have to do homework. Things will get better for all of us if there’s this much support in the world.
Does anybody else ever stay up late so they can avoid tomorrow?

A Depressed persons vocabulary "I'm fine" "Im okay" "nah I'm just tired" "it's not a big deal".
what do you guys say when someone gets mad at you for being sad? or when your being moody because your sad?
I can overhear my mother on the phone laughing and joking about my depression to her friend
Saying things like “she’s so emotional hahaha” and telling her friend everything I just said that was making me upset.Everything about me is just a joke to her, just a topic of discussion for her to gawk over.I don’t even know why I’m crying, what else should I expect from someone who hasn’t ever given me any kind of legitimate emotion support.
Do any of you feel like you're lying or being melodramatic every time you try to talk about your mental health?
I think I may have depression, but I find it so hard to talk about, because every time I try I feel like I am just making something out of nothing. I can write out 5 messages to a friend but never send them because everything I write feels like a lie.I managed to initiate a conversation with a friend about it just now, then immediately had to back out of it because everything i wanted to say felt like I was simply seeking attention or somehow trying to trick them. They were so supportive but I shut it down. Now I feel even more like I am just being melodramatic or attention seeking.
When I don’t have a job, I want a job. When I have a job, I don’t want a job. When it’s hot, I want it to be cold. When it’s Fucking cold, I want it to be hot. When I’m myself I want to be with people, when I’m with people I want to be by myself
Do you guys see what I’m saying here. I’m always constantly completely bullshitting myself 24/7. I always pretend that there are a few certain things that would make me feel a little better then I get them and I want the opposite. Complete self destruction and all 
Too depressed to be productive, and not depressed enough to kill myself
I lowkey wish I can be pushed over the edge so I'll have the courage to end it all (as horrible as that sounds)
I feel like I'm getting stupider, less talented, clumsier, and that soon I will be completely retarded.
As the title says. I feel like I'm getting worse and worse at everything. I feel like I'm getting weaker, much much dumber (I used to know a shit ton of trivia, a lot of history and be really good at helping people out. Now I've forgotten most things unless I read up on it daily, I've been relying more and more on canned responses when talking to people and I've become completely socially unaware). Things that used to be easy are now difficult, I constantly make typos and I can't even concentrate on things I like, much less things I dislike.Anyone else feel like that?
Anyone like being in the shower not for the purpose to get clean but standing in the water while the hot water just runs through your body while you just stare
It makes me feel less alone and its like im safe from everything in there and a sense of dread takes over me when im finished and i have to get out and face the world again Weird post lol sorry
I hope being dead is like sleeping,because im tired,i really am,i just want to sleep forever and never wake up again

Today I woke up and didn’t want to die.
After bordering on suicidal yesterday, I was surprised to find I had the motivation to get out of bed when I woke up this morning. The first thing I did was make my bed, and that’s a victory in my book. I love you all.Edit: Thank you for the Silver, and for the heartwarming comments. It means a lot!Edit 2: This has me all kinds of emotional. I’ve never had so much faith in the kindness of strangers.
Fun fact: when I was younger many people told me I was a gifted child of above average intelligence.
WELL I SURE SHOWED THEM, DIDN'T I?I'm a massive fuckup. I forget things the minute after I am told them. There's just a massive pile of fuzzy static in my head. My grammar has devolved into caveman-speak.I dunno if I blame my mental health or if I'm just stupid.
An unexpected side effect of depression: the decline of cognitive capabilities
This has been really scaring me lately. Since becoming depressed I've noticed more and more;- an inability to maintain thoughtful conversations with people- severely reduced attention span- short term memory loss- severely reduced motivationI think it largely has to do with my partaking in escapism, as I spend much more time browsing reddit/youtube and getting high since when I actually try to focus on work I usually end up crying. The result seems to be a feeling like I've been living in a haze, like I'm never really fully aware of what's going on, I'm just passively going through the motions of life. Getting out of this rut is going to be so much harder than I thought. I literally feel stupider now that I've been depressed for months. I can barely even talk to people in my classes now, they seem so competent and on top of things while I'm just an embarrassment who can barely form a coherent sentence.
Is anyone else hating the fact that they’re wasting time of their life as you’re witnessing it all go in the drain because of their stupid mental illness holding you down?
It’s so stressful. There’s so many things I want to do but I just can’t at the moment and it sucks. Theoretically, I could be physically paralyzed for months and it would be just the same as if I wasn’t paralyzed and living my regular depressed life. Watching your life go by without any motives and meaning as you have no one there beside you because you’ve kicked everyone out of your life is one of the worst feelings for me.
Do you ever get so empty you’re excited when you finally start crying because at least you’re feeling an emotion?
I’ve felt empty for days and just now cried a little. Even though I’m miserable I was almost happy. It’s worse to feel like you’re dead than being sad.
Anybody feel like you died long ago, and you're just a zombified shell?
I just go through the routine every day, and kinda let everything just pass by. I don't really have much of an emotional response to anything, and my personality feels like a mush of stuff. Like, whenever things go wrong, people say they want to die, and while, yeah, I don't like what happened, I just feel kinda... neutral.
Anyone else barely hanging on to life with no motivation whatsoever?
Too much of a coward to kill myself, but at the same time have no reason to live. I just need to know that I’m not alone who feels like this in this hour.
Mom died last night going to be needing all your love and support.
My depression has been doing so good, I’m so proud. But my mom passed away last night of pulmonary veno occlusive disease. Really needing positivity in these trying times. Thank you so much <3
anyone else get super motivated at night to get your life together, then when it's daytime that motivation is gone?
i wish i could still be motivated throughout the day. 
Anyone been depressed for so long they don't even know if they are depressed or if they are just really boring?
I don't know if I'm depressed or if I've just lost my personality and identity. I don't know if this is me now or what? I'm nothing like the old me and it kills me to admit it. 7 years back dad said it was just a stage I'm going through, yet here I am. All my friends are still themselves I'm completely fucking different
The reality of depression: Yesterday I was googling "most effective suicide methods". Today I feel fine.
This has probably happened hundreds of times in my lifetime. I'm 50 now, so obviously I haven't succumbed to depression yet. But the peaks and valleys are insane; I guess *I'm* insane. Yesterday it fully made sense to me - if I had had immediate means to end my life I could see taking that action. This is why I can never have a gun, or live in a tall building.  So far that small voice in me that says "It will get better, just wait" has remained more powerful than the other larger, louder voice that says "You've always been alone. You'll always be alone. Life isn't worth the pain." My reality is having both of those voices in my brain, and feeling that both are absolutely real when they're there.
Do you ever doubt the validity of your depression? And just think that the reason you can’t do normal things, is just because you’re a bad person?
My depression has depression bro. A lot of the time I doubt that I have a mental illness, and blame myself for being incapable of doing normal things. I feel empty all the time, yeah, I have a diagnosis, yeah, but I still manage to doubt myself anyways. It almost feels like it’s normal to feel empty. It’s strange when people tell me they can do their school work, have a job, and feel happy by second nature. It seems like feeling this way is normal, but I also feel like I’m alone in this? It’s weird. I tell myself things like, “this isn’t because of the depression, it’s because you’re worthless and incapable of doing anything.” I tell myself that this is an excuse to sit in bed and do nothing. But deep down I would give anything in the world to feel happiness. I hope this isn’t just me. Like deadass, I don’t know if I’m the only person who feels like this. And if I am that’s just gonna scare me.
Fuck this shit dude, how in the hell is anyone supposed to keep up with scjool, work, social life, healthy eating + exercise, and hobbies?
I'm so fucking done with this shit. I've had multiple exams this week all during my colleges green beer day fesitivies, which I've had to skip due to studying. Then I get asked why I'm not at our parties, and my friends asking why I haven't been going to the gym with them. Then my parents asking why I'm spending money at Chipotle and Wendy's and shit like I'm supposed to be eating green ass shit from whole foods all day. Then I'm supposed to also be spending time playing sports and video games and reading bc apparently that's the shit I like to do. Fuck this. How is anyone supposed to do this? What the fuck is the point. Sorry for ranting. Fuck this week. Been shit. Anyone want to talk? I need a study break I wanna help some people, maybe do some good in this fucked world. Love all of you 
Nobody gives a fucking shit about you until you mention killing yourself.
This world and all the people living in it is such a heaping pile of horseshit. Nobody has a fuck to give about mental illness. It's blatantly obvious. Fuck this.Edit: This post isn't about me, it's about other people.
I shouldn't have to lie about my depression to get a sick day
But I do. Every time. Because saying "I threw up everywhere last night" gets you a "Oh sweetie, take the day off to rest, it's okay!", but saying "My depression is acting up really badly and I just can't do it today" gets you a "Don't be lazy! Everyone gets sad, suck it up and come into work!".I shouldn't have to be fucking ashamed of my depression. It's as medical as the flu, yet people seem to think mental illnesses aren't a valid reason, and that you're not really sick.Fuck that shit. We need to break the stigma towards mental illnesses in general.
I’m a Christmas person, but this year I’m just... empty.
I’ve felt better these past few months. A lot better, great even. But this Christmas it’s like... I can’t bring myself to care for the Holidays - and it’s my favourite Holiday. I can’t explain it. My family lives two hours away and I almost didn’t go, just because I wanted to be alone in my apartment, doing absolutely nothing. But I’m a single child, my parents are single children, all my grandparents are dead - it’s just us three. They’re getting old, too. I couldn’t just *not* go. They would have been so sad and I don’t want that.But I’m just empty and miserable and it’s Christmas so I have to put up a front, a nice dress and be nice.Gosh this is hard.Merry Christmas.Edit: wow, you guys know how to make someone feel special and a little less alone. Thank you, kind strangers! ❤️
I deleted my note!
I had a long, very long suicide not stored in my phone, just waiting, and yesterday I deleted  it, i know it it’s not a huge step, but I feel ultimately better!Update- I didn’t expect this to blow up, I posted it because I couldn’t believe I had finally done it; and I had felt so good, I’m trying to say thank you to everyone who commented, thank you to whoever gave me gold, you’re the best, and you all are amazing. Thank you!Update 2- to everyone saying I inspired them to delete theirs, I cannot comprehend how good that made me feel that I helped to inspire you guys, I am so proud of every one of you. Thank you for all the love and support. I’m blown away and feel incredibly uplifted right now.
Sleeping is the only activity I don't hate because it's like a free trial of not existing
Dreaming is also a bonus. Sure the occasional nightmares are bad, but at least it's better than being awake, where you feel bad 100% of the time.
Anyone else get lost in their daydreams and get hit with a wave of depression when you snap back to reality?
I spend so much time thinking about how I wish my life was that I can’t face the actuality of where I am.
Absolutely nothing interests me anymore. I fucking hate it.
I literally don’t want to do anything at all. It doesn’t bring me any happiness or joy or whatever. At best, just distracts me from feeling shitty. Absolutely nothing helps. Video games, writing, reading, doing photography, drawing... none of that makes me happy.It’s the absolute fucking WORST. I don’t even feel like sleeping, but I don’t wanna be awake either. I go to bed before 7pm because I have nothing else I wanna do. All I do is lie in bed and listen to miserable songs and cry, then I go to sleep, wake up and repeat.I hate living. I hate this existence. I wish I could just die in my sleep.EDIT: This got a lot more attention than I thought so I just wanna day that I’m reading all your comments and I love you all
Why I stopped opening up.
"Bottling emotions is extremely unhealthy. You know, you can talk to me about anything."*dumps brain onto poor unsuspecting soul*"Wow, you should talk to a therapist about that. I believe in you though!"Edit: Thanks for all the supportive comments. To those suggesting I not open up to people who don't get it, I completely agree. This has happened to me when opening up to people who used to be very close friends who don't really have the time for me anymore. I'm not just dumping my brain on anyone who asks.
How many other people go to sleep wishing they'll die peacefully before they wake up?
I read this a lot here, "I don't want to kill myself, I just wish I didn't exist". I identify with that...  so much. I just don't want to keep feeling like this anymore, and for whatever reason that thought is amplified as I'm trying to sleep (e.g. right now). All I want is to simply not wake up tomorrow. Is that so much to ask for?Edit: wow, I did not expect to get so many responses when I wrote this yesterday. Although sad, it's still oddly comforting to know I'm not alone in feeling this way, so thank you sincerely for sharing. For those who offered helpful tidbits, thank you also. I hope that you all find peace one way or another, just as I hope that I can too. But let's face it, chances are that's won't be tonight, so.... here we go again.
My friend attempted suicide a couple days ago. My family is saying I will "ruin Christmas" if I spend time with her in the hospital on Christmas Eve instead of visiting them. What can I do?
A good friend of mine with whom I've been attending therapy for BPD overdosed a couple days ago. She survived and was transported unconscious to the hospital. She woke up but is unsurprisingly devastated. I want to be there as her support, she has a boyfriend but no family members who care about her and few friends. I had plans to see my family for Christmas but when this happened, it left me deeply depressed, particularly because another good friend of mine had committed suicide four years ago almost on the same day. To elaborate, I don't like spending Christmas with my family. I like them, but Christmas has always been more about chores and preparations than about quiet and peace. I thought I would spend Christmas by visiting my friend in the hospital. I don't want her to be alone, I know that if I were in her situation I would appreciate it if someone came to visit me. So I proposed this to my mother and brother, even the possibility that I would spend the afternoon with her and then go down to see them before dinner. However, their comments left gasping for air. They showed little empathy for my friend or me. My mother asked me if I had any "normal" friends. My brother told me that while it's ultimately my choice, I would be ruining Christmas by not coming down, or even by coming down just for dinner, that everyone would be disappointed in me and it would create arguments, implying I would be at fault for them. Here's the breakdown:  with my family, I risk being ostracized for weeks if not months if I don't go down there. However, I've felt more and more like they were less and less my family, while I've felt like my friends have shown more compassion and empathy for my depression and BPD than my family ever has - in fact, they've dismissed it as me "not having enough social activity", as "not having enough will", and have called my therapy "a waste of time." I feel like visiting my friend is the right thing to do, I know I will think of her the whole time I would be down at my family's, but I do not want to be ostrasized for months. I don't think I could handle it with my mental condition. Any and all thoughts are welcome. Thank you.
Does anyone else experience anger as a part of depression?
I always feel angry or annoyed or nothing is going right and I've felt like this around the same time as my depression reared its ugly head. So many things piss me off. I sometimes even go into borderline misanthropy because of my depression induced anger. It's led me to have fights with people who are my family and friends and I don't know why I push them away
Does anyone else sleep a lot to escape the pain?
I sleep so much. I enjoy it because it’s an escape without death. I don’t want to die but I don’t enjoy living, so I sleep. It’s a way of “living” without actually having to live. Sigh. If I could stay in bed all day and sleep, I would.
Suicide ice cream
I contemplated suicide a few years ago. Couldn't take it anymore, everything was going to shit (you could argue it still is), obstructive suicidal thoughts,etc. So one day I decided to kill myself by hanging. Pretty straight forward right? Well the thing is i live in a bad neighborhood and there aren't a lot of hanging -friendly trees. They were only on main streets and i can't hang myself in front of the free clinic. I'd make them feel bad. And someone would take my shit, cant have that. Very surreal and fustrating using Google Maps to find a half decent suicide spot especially when you're working with shitty MetroPCS service.Finally i found a spot. Small walking bridge in a secluded section of a neighborhood park. Good. Now for the suicide note. I get to work, banging it out all through the night. "Not meant for this world" "i know you'll miss me but it's for the best." Hit all the basic bullet points. Done. Now..........make a noose. But idk how to make a noose........so i look it up on WikiHow. 20 studious minutes later i have a functioning noose. All of a sudden i feel something from deep inside my deadened, numb brain. I'm proud of myself?? I'm proud if myself!!! I try to switch back to suicide mode but my mind is wandering now. "I made a noose, thats kind of dope." "What else can i make?" "Homemade ice cream? Hmm." So at around 4:30 am on a weekday, possibly a tuesday, i made homemade ice cream and here i am now typing this from a crappy android phone.P.S. the ice cream was terrible
I'm breaking apart and no one gives a fuck.
I swear to God, if I manage to kill myself and someone say some bullshit like "If only she talked to us we'd have helped" I'm coming back as a ghost to make their life a living hell.Keep your problem to yourself and your therapist because everyone else WILL use them to hurt you.
Does anyone habitually say things like "I fucking hate myself"
I've developed a habit of saying depressive thoughts out loud bc I'm always alone, always thinking them, and talk to myself when no one's looking. It's reached the point where instead of saying "fuck" when something goes wrong I'll say "I want to kill myself". It's become so engrained in my mind that I've come close to accidentally saying these when other people are around. Anyone else do this?
I’m killing myself [update]
So most of you probably didn’t even see my post before, which is fine, obviously, but I just felt the need to put this update out for the ones who did. 3 days ago I was so close to taking my own life. I was going to jump off a bridge and end it all. I was drunk so it made matters only worse. As I sat there and thought to myself, a voice came in my head. This voice told me how this was the wrong thing to do, that I have so much more going for me, and I can’t lose my life over some girl. So here I am, 3 days later. The girl and i have discussed what our relationship is going to be like. We are on a break as this is a time for me to focus and make myself happy. My happiness can’t be dependent on another person. That is unhealthy. I’ve started seeing a counselor and just doing more & staying active. I know In the end I can conquer these demons.I would just like to say thank you to all of you who reached out to me that night. I obviously didn’t respond, but knowing that a random stranger online cares enough about another stranger to make sure they’re okay, well that is special to me. Thank you once again, and I hope every one in this sub finds some sort of happiness in their life. We all deserve it. This is a disease just like diabetes, and you should not be ashamed of it. Instead face it head on, and say “fuck you depression, I’m better than you.”
Being alive is a scam
I get panic attacks over simple things I get really sad over small things wish I wasn’t so irrationaledit: listened to alexandrov ensemble and lots of blade runner and it’s helped clear my head. music really helps homies
People don't realize that coming over and just sitting with you, watching tv or having food or whatever, while you're depressed is the best feeling.
I usually decline social events when I'm really depressed because who would want to be around a depressed person, right?So, I'll stay home by myself, which makes me feel even more isolated and down. But it's not that I don't want to be around people. I just don't want to pretend all night that I'm this other person -- I do that all day at work; it's exhausting. But to have a good friend come over and just be there, just sit with you while you watch Tv, it just makes me feel loved, which helps chip away at the sadness just a little bit.
My girlfriend cheated on me with one of my best friends while I was at the psych ward for trying to kill myself. Someone please cheer me up
So this happened about 5 months ago but I found out about it this morning right after she broke up with me. We had been dating just about a year and I genuinely loved her with all my heart. I trusted her so much and she knew I have severe depression. I cant understand how another human can be that shitty. Anyone willing to talk?EDIT: just found out she cheated on me with another guy too. She's completely blaming it on me despite me treating her nothing but great while we dated. Back to feeling terrible again, just after the responses to this post made me actually feel pretty good :')
“People with depression don’t want to die, they just don’t want to be alive”
This quote helps me to explain how I feel, when people ask questions about depression
I´ve been told my whole childhood how intelligent I was. Now I can't live up to those expectations put upon me by others and myself. I feel like a failure.
I am one of probably millions of people who where told as kids how intelligent they were, but I don't see it in myself and I can't live up to those expectations put upon me. In middle school I got lazy and relied on my "intelligence" too much. Now I i feel like everyone has surpassed me just because my naive 10 year old self thought that I was somehow special or above average. Now in almost everything I score below average and can't keep up with others. Its been like this for all of the latter part of middle school and my high school years. now as everyone else is just about to graduate, its not even clear if I even will graduate. Everyone has clear goals and ambitions where as I don't see any real future for myself.
Anyone else have underlying sadness even when doing something "fun"?
Like I'll be out trying to enjoy myself and I'll be having a laugh or having a bit of fun but I still feel sad underneath, hard to explain but nothing feels fulfilling. Even hobbies I have just seem dull and I'm usually just trying to mask the pain so I don't have to feel. I hate this.
Anybody else feel like they're quietly panicking all of the time?
Like, not a full blown panic attack, but just the constant uncomfortable feeling of something not being right?
$200 will travel
A few weeks ago my depression got the best of me and I went off the deep end and quit my job.  I had $200 to my name and half a tank of gas. So I drove west. As far west as Laguna beach. I had never seen the ocean before. I spent $50 bucks on a hotel room outside of town. I put my toes in the sand and surf. The experience was something I will never forget. Also, the ocean is way bigger than I thought it would be no matter how dumb that sounds. It gave me the will power to keep going for some dumb reason. Not sure why I am sharing this other than to say that you never know what type of experience will bring you back, so to speak.I’m back home with an interview next week.Sometimes things aren’t as black as they are grey.Edit: I got the job. For anyone who cares. Good times.
Do you ever lay there in the dark, just staring into the nothingness, and then 5 hours went by somehow and you cant remember if you fell asleep or not.
This has happened to me twice this week. I think I’m dying.
Does anyone feel like the less interesting person while hanging around other people?
Like, your presence is not important, everything would be the same even without you.
I convinced myself I was going to commit suicide sometime in the next 2 weeks. Then I walked to the kitchen and saw my beautiful, loving family. Now I cant stop crying
I want to die so badly, but I cant do this to them. They greeted me with smiles and joy. My mother asking if I ate anything and if I wanted breakfast. My elderly father gave me a beautiful smile and asked how I slept. I dont want to make them suffer. If it weren't for them I would've killed myself already. They are also sick and need my help. I cant a abondon them. I'm so sick of living, but I have to live for them. I just want the suffering to end, and dying is the only way.
Anyone else feel like their "fake depressed"?
it's stupid, but i always doubt the fact i have depression, even after getting an official diagnosis, i'm still scared that i'm just an attention whore taking up everyone's time. Most of the time when i go to post something on here, i end up deleting it because i don't want someone in the comments to say something like "your not actually depressed, your just a whiny teen". I don't know. EDIT: Hey so i'm not the only one who feels this way. If anything it's slightly comforting to know thatEDIT 2: Yes i'm aware of the spelling mistake in the title, it's kinda hard to spell correctly when you're rambling at 11 pm
Depression is the hot funny meme until you're not sleeping, not eating, and hoping you'll die in a car accident
I never understood why so many people see depression as something we can all joke about so fucking carelessly and casually. Like, it's funny and relatable to see tweets and memes about how much depression sucks but it really does so much harm than good, doesn't it? I can't understand how this is just so commonplace. I laugh at them. Theyre funny. I see myself in them. And then for hours and days upon days I lock myself in my car with a vague numbness, ditching class or calling off work to just... what, stare off into a void and roll around uncomfortably in my drivers seat in a shitty parking lot, chew through a pack of cigarettes, and just try to settle down suicidal compulsions. I stare in the rearview mirror and gastation bathrooms for forty minutes trying to make sense of who's looking back and why the sight of that person makes my stomach churn. I don't sleep for days on end until I collapse. I lose weight in 7 pound intervals. The thoughts of being a fuck-up and how bad I would beat the shit out of myself if I met myself on the street just stew any time Im beside myself. It's so funny! So quirky and relatable! If this is relatable that's fucking tragic. Being a ball of despondency and wanting to break my bones with a baseball bat is something I want everyone to laugh at with me. It's three am here and I'm just having a cigarette in an empty bathroom tub because I don't wanna think about anything. I wish there was a way to turn brains off. Medications haven't worked and I don't like being medicated at all anyway. It feels like hitting a plaster wall anytime I try to feel anything. Sure is loads of fun.
Feel like I'll never be able to have a normal loving relationship because of my depression and my personality
How can someone love a mess like me? How can someone love me with all this fog in my brain, with these glaring imperfections, with a dark cloud above her head?
One of the shittiest feelings is having a dream where you're genuinely happy then waking up to reality.
This happens to me a few times a year. It's like my brain is teasing me.
Anyone feels jealous and bitter that you’re stagnating while everyone around you is moving forward?
As much as I wish people the best, I have to fight feelings of bitterness and jealousy all the damn time. I wanna know how to better cope with these feelings.
Does anyone else get random moments of clarity where you think "oh crap, I'm actually very mentally ill."
Had one of those today. It feels like, for just a moment, I understand that I am indeed suffering from an illness. It's such a strange contrast from constantly thinking "You're not actually sick, you're just a terrible person."Anyone else experience something similar?
Realizing that you will die because of suicide is really hard.
Sometimes it just really hits me that maybe not today or tomorrow but eventually I will commit suicide. This realization really fucks me up. I wish this wasn’t the case. I wish so much I could be normal and happy but it’s been years and I’ve begun to really accept that my suicide is inevitable. I hope I’m proven wrong.Edit: it’s been 160 days since I posted this and although not much has changed in my mindset I still come back often and read all the new comments. Those of you who commented or will comment I see you and just wanted to say thank you we’re not alone and although things suck they suck a bit less together.
The holiday season can be hard, sometimes a nap and a snack is just what you need to clear your head

Reading this today, I felt a little better.

Seeing this made me feel a little better today

i made a list of things keeping me alive

I’ve been severely depressed most of my life. I’ve finally cleaned my room after a month of neglect. You’ve got this! Don’t give up! It seriously does get better!

Actually went for a run today... Never done this before and I feel a little bit better now

It's complex.

‪You did it, that’s what matters.

This is a reminder that things CAN get better and therapy is invaluable.

I started gardening and it has really helped with my depression! I’m really proud of this little space

Barely eaten anything since Thursday morning. Was hospitalized that night for SI and cutting. Husband hasn’t spoken to me since Friday. This is the first food I’ve made or eaten. Fuck you depression. Go home.

.

This is my first post but I feel really proud of myself tonight! My first step to help myself

.

Good Info to Note

Stranded in a country after losing my passport. Waiting for a visa outcome. Didnt leave the room all day but finally at 6pm went to the hostel garden. It was raining, reflecting my mood. Saw a rainbow. Felt 1% better. Just sharing.

Xmas present from my sister. Nice reminder that there is someone who knows my struggle and is there to help.

I thought this art so we'll reflected what were all feeling. I wanted to give this artist some recognition while reminding all of that we are not alone in this, and together we can get through it.

When u want to talk to someone but you remember you got banned from r/depression for absolutely no reason

This is what depression looks like.

For anyone needing to hear this 

It's going to be okay.

Celebrate the good days #happy

You are right on time.

It feels silly to celebrate; but I got out of bed, showered, and dressed before the sun went down today! 
I stopped taking my meds last week (adderall) because my tolerance grew and I don’t want to up my dosage. Ever since, I’ve been experiencing the worst depression I’ve had in forever. The rollercoaster I’ve been riding for the last week brought me to the point of wanting to just end it all a few nights ago. I was feeling really guilty this morning for what I have been putting my loved ones through. I almost fell back to where I was a couple of nights ago. But instead, I got out of bed, and just took a shower. Now I’m laying in my moms bed. I haven’t said anything to her. But I’m feeling a lot better now. And I was able to avoid the longing to end my life.  Thank you all for your posts in this sub. I stumbled on it this morning and it motivated me enough to get me out of bed. I didn’t even have the strength to move before. I’m so happy that I wanted to share my excitement with someone. But no one else would understand how something so small could mean so much to someone like me. Thank you again! 
This was on my therapist’s wall. It has helped me and I hope it speaks to you as well.

Has Anyone Else Feel Like They Have Become Less Intelligent After Dealing with Depression...
Sorry, this is my first reddit post, I'm fairly new to the community. Thank you for taking the time to read this.&#x200B;Like (presumably) a lot of people, I felt as if I was incredibly smart growing up. I was able to start school early when I was younger, I had a near perfect GPA, I painted, I played multiple instruments, and my parents were pushing me to apply for top schools. My future looked really bright.However, in the middle of senior year (of high school), something felt really wrong, and everything began to fall apart (lol, that sounds overly dramatic...but just know that I really was not in the right state of mind). I couldn't get up to eat, I cried at random times at school, **(warning for triggering visualization? not sure if this would count as one) \*\*** I began to harm myself a lot (like I mostly beat my legs or arms with objects), and I was just deep into depression. I tried to commit suicide multiple times, **\*\***&#x200B;Like I've experienced periods of sadness before this, but never as intense and for an entire year.Luckily, I did well enough in school before all of this happened, so I was awarded a scholarship to let me go to community college for free— so I didn't completely self-sabotage my future. So I've been working on transferring for the past year.&#x200B;However, I'm so distraught. I feel like my intelligence has gone down the drain. I slur when I talk, I developed a bit of a lisp, I can't coordinate my actions to my thoughts, I even forget letters when writing (for example, I would write "oadside" instead of "roadside" or "mozzera" instead of "mozzerella"). I feel so, so disappointed in myself and it's ruining my self esteem. I even had to say the phrase "I want to know what I originally got on my essay" three times the other day to my professor because I couldn't remember how to say it, and he looked at me really funny.&#x200B;Is this normal?? Like I said, it's ruining my self esteem completely, and I feel like I'll never be the person I once was. I'm starting to relapse back into my depression because I feel so worthless, and I feel like I don't know what to do. I've tried reading more, downloading cognitive supporting apps (like Luminosity?), and I've been sleeping okay and drinking lots of water. But I don't know. Has anyone experienced something like this and was able to rework themselves back to the person they originally were? If so, how did you do it?Or am I doomed to plummet even further than I am now...Sorry if this question seemed pretentious or if I seemed pretentious in any way.
This helped me. I hope it does for you <3. We are all here to support each other. We love you.

An interesting view on depression and addiction, made me take a step back and see the truth in it.

I can relate

This really helped me

Slowly accepting the fact that some (or a LOT) ppl may never truly understand depression. And my energy to explain/educate them is finite. So I probably need to be extremely careful who I talk to.

This man > my therapist

Has anyone else lost YEARS due to this shit?
I wasted 7-10 years. Pretty much what should have been the prime/best years of my life and literally nothing notable happened during that time. Not a fun weekend, not a date, nothing
My fiancé started walking as a way to relieve anxiety and depression. Now he shares his hikes in the English countryside as a way to help others, and to share beautiful natural places with those who might have difficulty accessing them otherwise. I hope you enjoy :)

Never saw it like this until I was severely depressed (anybody else remember this?)

If your reading this, I don’t know you, and you don’t know me, but I just want you to be happy.
I just want everyone to be happy, and no one to care about me, I love anyone reading this if there is any. Please just be happy. Please.
Came across this. Hope it helps you as well

Whenever i get too low o wear this shirt. I made it when i felt i was at my lowest it says the pression won't beat me and in the bottom it says push on, be strong ,keep living

You guys are a big part of my support system

I finally cleaned up the clothes all over my floor
After almost 6 months of having ankle deep clothes on my floor, I finally cleaned my room. It’s not much, and things have been getting worse lately, but I did it.
Don’t give up on yourself

I'm proud of you

The problem with depression is that it keeps proving itself right...

Just getting through the day is enough

I believe in you.

Let's start doing weekly wellness checks with each other

Found this. Hope it helps someone.

This place could always use more positivity :D

Gentle Reminder to Brush Your Teeth
Had to go to the dentist due to an abcess and a tooth needing an immediate root canal. Went back and they are now saying 3k for all the work needed. Ill be making it through the treatment and payment plans over the next forever. But this is a gentle reminder to brush your teeth or swish some mouth wash. Been in a bad spell of depression for the last year and a half but Im in therapy now and we will see how it helps. But like many I stopped doing anything to take care of myself This is the hardest to break out of but seeing this as my result is upsetting. Knowing there is a solution is helpful. I just have to make it through to the end
Being proactive is the best thing you can possibly do

Another pic I found on my Facebook feed that I thought others might like. It's always good to be reminded of this.

Depression needs to stop freeloading and kill me itself-like every other illness does-instead of telling me to do it myself

I Am Happy Y’all Exist~Thank You.

It's Calling me back

Sometimes you have to will yourself to have a good day

Idk who needs to hear this today, but you're important and you deserve to be happy.

I appreciate you guys more than you'll ever know you're like a second family

If you’ve forgotten/been unable to brush your teeth in a long time.
If you’ve been unable to brush your teeth in a long time you may have developed mild gum disease. If that’s the case brushing for the first time will lead to bleeding and discomfort.If you’re really struggling just buy some mouth wash, the cheapest I’ve seen is 70p for a normal bottle. Using this just once a day can be a start.When you can start brushing your teeth Use sensitive toothpaste such as sensodyne toothpaste. It will hurt a lot less and claims to repair damage. If it hurts, stop! When I’ve been at my worse I had to build up from mouth wash to 30 seconds then adding 10 seconds each time until I built up to 2 mins and then flossing.If you start to floss, use sensitive floss and don’t do it straight away after a long time, it can make the bleeding worse. Work up to flossing.I tried to find this advice a few years ago but no one is really open about it so I thought I’d share. Good luck!
Stop overthinking happiness.

Sophie T., you are an inspiration

Being a parent with depression is hard

This is exactly how I feel

Congratulations /r/Depression_Help! You are Subreddit of the Day!

For anyone who needs this right now.

I want to hug everybody on this subreddit
I won’t say it’ll be ok. I won’t say it won’t be hard. And I won’t say it’ll be easy. But I will say I understand. I’m struggling. I’m struggling so hard. I’ve been struggling for a long time now. It’s hard to get through each day, and sometimes I want to give up. I just want you to know you are worth it. I know these words may be meaningless. I know these words may sound cliche. But please keep going. You where born for a reason. You are here for a reason. You are worth it. Please don’t give up. I wish I could help. I wish I could be strong enough to take all the weight of your sorrow and take it away. I wish I could give you a hug. But I can’t, all I can do is type this hoping it gets through to somebody in need. Thank you for reading, I know it’s just words but I hope it helps a little.
You are beautiful

Someone here needs this today.

No matter what they say.

I just read about a poor little 10 year old boy who committed suicide because he was bullied and I ask all of you to please keep him in your thoughts because he was one of us.
This morning, I read about a little boy who has had more than 26 surgeries and had to carry a colostomy bag around with him. Kids at his school bullied him almost daily because of it, often going as far as assaulting him and yelling racial slurs at him. His family said he often prayed for his bullies and never fought back when they attacked him.  Well, he hung himself, a 10 year old boy knew how to hang himself. This poor little innocent child will never see what a beautiful life he had ahead of him because his bullies thought it was so hilarious to attack something he could not control.We are all in this sub reddit because we have faced, are facing depression, pain, mental disorders. Some of us may have faced bullies in our lives. And those “bullies” are all facing problems of their own causing them to lash out at others. And unfortunately, they are causing so much pain for those who do not deserve it.So today, I am asking all of you to please keep this little boy in your thoughts because he was one of us, and unfortunately the pain was too much for his innocent soul. If any of you are facing problems that you feel are too big for you to handle. Please seek help. Reach out to those around you because I would not be here today if I didn’t make the decision to seek help.Best wishes:)
Depression Grayscale "Depression is being color blind and constantly told how colorful the world is." Atticus
** ℑ ℭ:**             ,              .              .  ’        .,            .   ,        ,      . ,             ,           ,     .From: [https://**xyzlifecoach.com**/2019/10/22/depression-grayscale/](https://xyzlifecoach.com/2019/10/22/depression-grayscale/)
Today is meh... (here's a comic)

I hate when people, don't believe mental illness is real, they want an explanation for something they can't see daily.

If you don’t have the energy to do something, try taking a micro-step
Many people with depression obviously lack energy, ambition and motivation. Thinking about accomplishing large tasks can trigger anxiety, which causes depression, which causes anxiety, and so on. It’s counter productive to think about the large task you have to do.A solution I found helpful for this problem is to take micro steps. Just do the tiniest step you can towards that goal you have, and don’t be embarrassed by how small it is.For instance, if you want to lose weight, exercising is an obvious goal, but it can sound so painful and atrocious that you simply refuse to do it. On the other hand, you could effortlessly do a single push-up (or whatever exercise is effortless for you) at this moment. *boop.* It is done. You did it. It took 3 seconds. It didn’t hurt. You may be thinking, “oh wonderful, now I’ve done a push up, I’m still nowhere near my goal of losing 50 pounds!” Yet, what I’ve found with micro-steps is they build momentum: - Even if I only do one push-up, I’m better off than where I just was. - Then, upon realizing one push-up was so easy yesterday, I can do another push-up tomorrow. It is still extremely easy. - Then I do one push-up every day for a week. It’s still extremely easy. - Then I do TWO pushups every day for a week. Still extremely easy. And hey 14 pushups a week ain’t too shabby. - Then I decide I’m going to add one more push-up every day of the week (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7). It’s still easy. It’s just *one more* than I *yesterday*, which was easy. - then I do this for two weeks (14 push-ups at the end). I reach day 14 and while it’s no longer as easy as one push-up, it’s something I’m proud of now and I don’t want to break my streak. I’m doing hundreds of pushups a month now.. I hadn’t done a single push-up in years before this started. It’s still nowhere near as hard as I originally imagined. It hurts for a minute, then I get a body high. It’s enjoyable overall. Wow, I see why people like this! Unbelievable. People are complimenting me for looking healthier. Unbelievable. I feel healthier. Cant stop this now, it’s working!- then, a few months later I do this for 3 weeks- then 4 weeks..- and so on... I repeated this pattern and I’m currently up to doing 150 pushups 3x per week. I put on a podcast and take my time and don’t even think twice about it. It’s mildly annoying and then it feels great when I’m down. I have the strength to do 150 pushups a day now because I wasn’t ashamed to do that one pushup 5 years ago. If I hadn’t done that one push-up, I probably would have never done *anything*. Taking the tiny micro step of manifesting your goals can build momentum that you desperately need when you’re in a depression funk. Without any momentum you feel like there is no purpose. You are like a flower blocked from the sun. But even a small amount of sunlight can change everything, causing you to grow into places where you can effortlessly reach more sunlight. This also works for tasks you have to get done in the short term. Have a paper due tomorrow? First thing in the morning, just open up Microsoft word. You’ll think “well that was easy, I took the first step.” Then you will consider how hard the second step is: a title. Not hard. Now you’ve done something. And it’s only 7am. I’ll take an hour break and then write some outlines... then I’ll write a sentence. ..Then a paragraph... this is actually not so bad... once you take that first step of that opening Microsoft word, things stop seeming so daunting. Everything gets put into better perspective when you manifest your thoughts into actions, even in the most microscopically small way.
Here’s an update to my room guys. Thanks again!

How do you get over your emotions

I love this

Upvote if you're feeling hopeless

Wearing My "Social Mask" Exhausts Me
I feel like I'm losing my ability to cope with being around people. Even those I like and am friends with? Being around people has always felt like it's depleting a little HP bar somewhere inside me because I have some inner pressure constantly to be likable and interesting. It's shattering.But it's getting worse. I'm finding it harder and harder to resist the temptation of isolation and then FOMO starts kicking my ass too. Can't win. Just feel miserable...
It kills me to see others in worse positions than I am. You matter. You all matter and it doesn't matter what your depression or suicidal thoughts tell you.
I'm in a similar boat with all of you, but suicide isn't the way out, and self-harm doesn't help. Everyone I know who's self-harmed tell me not to do it. Your life matters. I know it doesn't seem like it does, I know you're being told something entirely the opposite, but theres always light at the end of the tunnel, no matter how long that tunnel is. It doesn't matter how many times you fail, what matters is if you give up on yourself. Please, you do, in fact, matter. You are, in fact, worth something. Hold onto whatever makes you wanna live, no matter how small or insignificant that thing might be, its still worth living for. If your family wouldn't care, if you don't have friends, if you feel as if not a single soul cares about what happens to you, at least know that I'd care. Alot of people I knew were depressed or suicidal, and things got better for them.&#x200B;Please. Do SOMETHING. Go on a walk, for example. It doesn't have to be a big one, it could be just around the block or up and down your sidewalk. Or you could read a book, or do a small workout, etc. I know it seems pointless, but these things help improve your mood. I'm speaking from experience.Eat something.  Don't starve yourself. It only worsens the pain.&#x200B;You have to force yourself out of this. I know, all you feel like you're capable of doing is lying in bed, but it won't ever get better if you don't break the cycle. I know this seems like an impossible task, but do you really wanna wake up every morning wanting to die? I don't think any of us enjoy it. Do you really wanna die, or do you just want these thoughts and feelings to cease? Vent in the comments of this post if you want. I don't mind.&#x200B;Talk to someone, anyone. You can even talk to me if you want to. Your life matters. Your feelings matter. Don't end it. Please. YOU MATTER.
Enjoy the good times

You've got this, every one of you.

I need help. I procrastinate way too much it’s to the point where all my room literally is the most disgusting place I’ve ever been

"I am not always very attached to being alive" | An Article About Passive Suicidal Idealization
My girlfriend just sent me [this post](https://theoutline.com/post/7267/living-with-passive-suicidal-ideation).She and I both teeter the line of depression and sometimes, I find myself unable to understand her. My depression comes out in bursts and tears and when it's happening, it's easy to see and hear and feel. For her, I think it's something different. She told me this article really put her feelings into words and made her feel like someone else understood and that someone else was facing the same feelings she was.I wanted to share it here so that others could see it and maybe be comforted by those words as well.I hope you are all doing well, genuinely and truly, and that something is making you smile today.&#x200B;
My friend killed himself after 8 failed attempts over many years. Don't always trust their parents alone to do the right thing cause sometimes they just don't; they make it worse.
I'm 23 now, it's been a couple years since he died and I can't help but remember him on occasion whenever I experience something new or good in life. I just think "if he didn't end it all he'd have seen the bigger picture eventually". It's never as simple as that but at the same time, it is; it's all about the timing.  He had it all. He was popular, had that ripped body everyone envied him for, had the attention of the ladies and had a wealthy family. None of that seems to matter one bit when it concerns clinical depression. It only got worse with whatever his dad thought was the best response which was to initially send him to live in another country thinking a change of scenery was all he needed after his first few attempts, that didn't really work either. His dad's solution was to just deal with it like a man ought to and so my friend confided in his grandfather instead of his own parents. This one time he jumped off the fourth floor of his house (wealthy family like I said) and only survived cause he landed on his car. Shattering his skull and shoulder blades, he was back up and walking in a few months. The guy was a tank, a kick boxer and at the peak of his physique so he seemed to oddly survive his various attempts.   Things settled when he got into a stable relationship for a few years and we grew out of touch but I heard he was doing well and had left the country with his significant other. The last thing I heard after that was how his grandfather had died and that they found he had hanged himself a few days after the funeral. His family didn't even tell his friends about it, they just had a quick and quiet funeral for him the next day and I only found out about it months later.   That was the end of his story but it doesn't have to be for so many others out there. Please seek professional help for you or for those you know are going through cycles of depression. The worst way to deal with it is to leave it to conservative families that care more about impressions and "manning up" than being humble enough to band together when one is hurting and be supportive and nurturing.
Threatening suicide as a means of control: It is toxic. Don't do it.

Well, this made me laugh until I almost peed, thought maybe it would make you smile too.

Even for a second I hope this would make someone smile

A friend sent me this... and I found it amusing

I’d love to have access to mental health services without going broke

Depression is not who we are

Time stands still on Tuesday, January 27th 2015. I was left behind after the suicide of my first true love. I am still so lost, trying to find meaning in all of this. Much love to every single one of you.

im jealous of developed countries
sorry for any bad grammar, i didnt feel like fixing any mistakesim jealous of people living in developed countries, i really am.i was born in a joke of a country in africa, its just like the usual, crap healthcare, shitty education, corrupt government, locked in neverending wars, blah blah, and im not really sure what i can do about it,they had somesort of revolution recently but itll probably take years before any real changes happeneverybody is living like shit but theyre all so hopeful about the revolution for some reason, im not really sure whyits amazing thery all so hopeful even though everbody lives like crap, im really jealous, i wish i could feel the same wayand my family has been really helpful so far, giving me a bed to sleep in, food to eat and such even though everything is so expensive for them , i dont feel that im grateful enough, and theres alsso people living worse than me so i dont have any right to feel sadthe country is sudan if that helpsim attending a really crappy uni for medical school that i really dont care about, it doesnt have a professional looking website evenand the lecture halls are really small, it doesnt look anything like i saw in moviees and suchapparently if you can get a medical degree or an engineering one, you can work outside if you get really good grades, even in super advanced countres like australia or canada, but you have to pass some sort of really diffcult exam before you can get accepted and that worries me, because i dont think i can get motivated enough anyway to study for itim really jealous of westerners, they have everything they could ever wantthey have cool things like museums and space obsevatories and such, ive always wanted to go to one of these, or maybe a movie theater, ive never been in one before, while here we have nothingim sorry for rambling and my really crappy grammar, i just wrote whatever was on my mind and i dont really care about revisingthanks, just writing this down after bottling it up for so long feels really liberating, i feel so much better already, and usually im not in this much of a bad mood, ill probably get over it in the morning________________________________Edit :Sorry about the delay, I was a bit embarrassed to check this account after rambling for so long, and I was afraid I wouldn't get any replies...Thank you so much for replying, everyone! I really can't find the words to express how I feel.All that I can say is thank you, and I hope you get through all your problems as well.Finding some sort of medium to talk about my problems, especially in a country that doesn't take mental health seriously at all, it honestly feels amazing.It's just like some of you have said, people in developed countries can definitely suffer too. It's always a good idea to put yourself in other people shoes and see what they're going through. Even if they're much better off than I am, they can still be depressed, and that's okay.There are also people far worse than I am, even in developed countries, and that's also okay.Thank you for reminding me about perspective, and once again, thank you for replying. It really means a lot to me.
I’ve skipped 2 whole weeks of class and still don’t feel like going
I’ve been absolutely drained mentally. I tried liking college and studying but I just feel like I need some time off. Problem is: I don’t want to disappoint my parents. They’re the best and deserve much better. I just don’t have any motivation at all to get up at 6 am, shower at 6:30, go to class at 8:30 and sit between strangers until 6 pm and be home at 7 pm.  I also fear of being a failure with a shitty job in the future but not even that motivates me to go to class or study every day.
I haven't hurt myself since September
I don't know who else to share this with. Very few people in my life even know about my propensity for self harm. I've been doing it for 6 years now starting when I was 18. Nothing major predominately on my legs and chest, at my lowest point I was doing it multiple times a week. It's been 3 months officially today since I last did it. It's the longer I've gone since I was 19 or 20. I feel some hope that maybe I'm finally getting better but like I said only 2 people in my life even know and both are reluctant to talk about it and I'm hesitant to talk about this with them because I don't think they would understand why I'm proud of myself for 3 months abstention. I know nobody will probably read this but God I wanted to share it. Sorry this is such a rambling mess.
Maybe this might help someone, it helped me. I wrote down all my ANTs, automatic negative thoughts, to get them out of my head and it felt like it wasn’t poisoning me from inside anymore. But now I’m covering the sticky notes with positives so I can quite literally override the negative ones now.

Am I the only person who is depressed on New Year’s Eve?
For some reason I feel... empty and a feeling of sadness. Yes this is supposed to be a happy holiday but I’m worried about what’s to come in the future. I really don’t want 2020 to be the same as 2019 so I feel a little bit pressured. Is there anything that can make me happy for this New Years? Is anyone experiencing the same thing?
My fiancé started walking as a way to combat anxiety and depression. Now he shares his hikes as a way to remind others about the beauty of the natural world. I hope this makes you smile today.

My victory for the day. Sweeping for the first time in months.

1000% true!

Despite the anxiety, despite the depression, despite all my self criticism and imperfections - I was a beautiful bride this Saturday!

Today I promised myself bacon and eggs if I could get myself to a coffee meet up. I was too anxious to attend last week. Guess who got bacon and eggs?!! Feeling so proud of myself for going.

Have my first real, adult, job interview today! Not only that, but I also managed to drive by myself in city traffic! Two small victories 

Professor here, if you have missed class, please come back. We aren’t mad at you.
Hello, I’ve read a lot of posts recently about folks missing classes and feeling too anxious to come back. Don’t worry. We would much rather you come back to our classes than continue to miss. We teach because we care about you individually. We care about what’s going on in your lives. I know it’s easy to see professors as these omnipresent overlords but know that we are human and we have definitely been in your position before. Please feel better and know that you are always welcome back into class. Just shoot us an email and let us know what’s up so we can help you make up the work you missed.
Today is my cake day and I wanted to post a pic of me smiling for once. Things are starting to look up.

I am busy.

Message from your future self

1. Anxiety makes it hard to go to sleep 2. Depression makes it hard to get out of bed 3. Drink coffee for a boost 4. Caffeine makes anxiety worse 5. Repeat
Just one of the hellish cycles that anxiety gets me caught in. Can anyone else relate?
I was thinking why this sub has a lot more upvotes than comments, realized people are too anxious to comment,lol
edit: welp reaching over 2000 upvotes makes me anxious to post anything here again, so I guess this will be my only post :p
My gal Sprankles - she always knows how to comfort me after a bad panic attack 

hey if you know someone has anxiety PLEASE DON'T TEXT THEM "WE NEED TO TALK" AND THEN NOT REPLY FOR 7 HOURS FUCK
just needed to get that out there
Three weeks ago I booked this trip to Hawaii by myself, and three weeks later I’m happier than ever.

After 4 years of GAD and 1 year of agoraphobia - I finally went out to eat by myself... I feel like I can conquer the world!

Due to severe hand tremors from anxiety I’ve had to quit sketching and inking for several years. Finally am managed enough by medication that I could finally finish this piece :)

Drawing I made about panic attacks and anxiety...helps me process everything in a new way

Just a friendly reminder that anxiety attacks aren’t always hyperventilating & rocking back and forth. They are also random bursts of irritability, obsessive behavior and nit picking, hypersensitivity, pacing, silence, zoning out. Always look for signs with your loved ones

My girlfriend made me a Calming Jar

I was scared of leaving the house but I managed to push myself and it was pretty

I wanted to share my new embroidery with you all as a reminder of your value ❤

I don't think people realize how much strength it takes to pull your own self out of a dark place mentally. So if you've done that today or any day, i'm proud of you.
EDIT: I heard the quote somewhere, doesn't belong to me. :)
This is the first time I have been to the movies since getting PTSD and the first time EVER going to a movie solo!! Had lots of anxiety, did it anyway, and now feel super badass!

I WENT TO THE GYM AND I DIDN’T DIE!!! (I’ve had public workout anxiety since elementary school)

Might need a pick me up

Anxiety is having a wonderful day ahead of you but not enjoying it because you’re thinking about that 2 minute phone call you’ll have to make in five days.
Edit: sometimes I just feel so alone, sometimes more than 1.5k people relate to me. Thank you. 
i experienced the worst panic attack i’ve ever had. this is my bunny, Chicken, helping me feel better

Service dog senses and responds to owner's oncoming panic attack

When you're calm and relaxed

Today is a hard day. My cat knows exactly when I’m having a panic attack and cuddles with me until I calm down. Animals are magical. ❤️

My family isn’t the most understanding when it comes to my anxiety so I lean a lot on my cats for support. I did some photo art about how I see them.

Ain't THAT the truth...

Anxiety is waking up 3 hours before your alarm and not being able to fall back asleep because you're worried you won't be able to fall back asleep.
Thanks brain.
I'm so anxious while doing schoolwork that my fitbit thinks i'm working out

I made a lil comic based on a post I saw here about work while having anxiety. so here it is.

Trying to sleep with anxiety is like trying to sleep with relentless pop up ads in your mind

I FUCKING HATE SOCIAL ANXIETY BECAUSE YOU’RE SCARED TO TALK TO PEOPLE BUT ALSO DYING TO TALK TO PEOPLE AND HANG OUT AND RELAX AND HAVE FUN AND NOT BE ALONE AND LONELY AND FEEL LIKE SHIT BUT YOU DO FEEL LIKE SHIT BECAUSE YOU CAN’T EVEN RELAX ENOUGH TO TALK TO PEOPLE WITHOUT OVERTHINKING EVERYTHING

I know a lot of us take antidepressants for anxiety so here's a map I made about it

Does anyone else's anxiety make them waste an entire Sunday and then when nighttime hits, your anxiety ramps up because you know you have to work the next morning?
That beast gets me every time. Never ending cycle. Update: I want to apologize in advance if this post header made anyone's anxiety even worse. Not my intention to do so! And WOW 1k up-votes. Thank you ALL! you are truly amazing, strong, capable and lovely people and thank you for coming together to support one another in this loving community. Sending the most positive vibes for each and everyone of you to have a lighthearted Sunday evening and an even better Monday. ❤️
Feeling so proud of: -present me- for going to my exercise class even though I was late and was anxious people would be mad. -past me- for getting up the guts to start going to the class in the first place. That was super scary! Now it’s a routine it’s easier to go.

I painted health anxiety... At least how it feels to me.

Just managed to successfully complete a 9 hr shift at work today (I cook at a Pizza Hut) after suffering a panic attack on shift just last Sunday.

Is this also you? Because this is me.

Anxiety is sending an email and then not checking your email for 3 days because you're scared of seeing the reply.

Do what you can with what you have wherever you are.

My wife has been suffering v.badly with anxiety these last 3 years. Has been in and out of hospital and we have two small children. She's finally got back into her drawing which has started to have a real calming effect. (I took a quick photo while she was upstairs as I am so proud of her). Hope!

Does anyone else ever take out your ear buds to make sure no one else can hear what you're listening to?

People with a mental illness are not lazy. They have to face an internal battle everyday. And we all know loosing the battle is not an option. We literally have the biggest, most important job possible. Keeping ourselves sane and alive.

I love you and hope you are having an awesome day

I’m a young kid with really terrible death anxiety. For the first time, I’m visiting my grandfather’s grave. Grabbed some ice cream on the way... feeling very nervous but wish me luck, going with a smile for him! :)

Does anyone use their phone excessively for hours to distract their brain?

I stopped existing to the world for three years after graduating college. Last week, I posted about attending my first full time job interview. I wasn’t expecting anything, I was proud of myself for being brave. Tonight, they offered me the position. I AM A PERSON AGAIN. I AM REAL. I EXIST.

I DID IT.
I FUCKING DID IT. I have extremely bad driving anxiety and I have been stressing about this trip for months and today was the day. I drove 2 hours ON THE HIGHWAY!!!! I WENT LIKE 100 km/hr!!!!! and then 2 hours back (in the dark!!!) !!!!!!!I bought myself a whole pizza when I got there and SMASHED IT BC I FUCKING DESERVED THAT SHIT hahahahahIt’s literally 1:45 am and I’m so fucking happy. If you’re reading this and you’re too scared to do something, DO IT. On the other side of fear is freedom. I feel like I just beat a boss level. Good night guys, sending you all good vibes.Edit: Thank you so much for all your lovely comments and to whoever gave me gold! I’ve posted about this issue on this sub for a while and I’m so grateful for all the support I’ve received. Wishing you all the best. 
Does anyone feel depressed that their anxiety has kept them from experiencing major parts of a "normal" life?
I barely went out with friends when I was in high school. Always heard about my friends going out to parties, but I never went to one myself. In university, I avoided going out with friends, and mostly kept to myself. At the time, I didn't realize I had anxiety. But now, when I look back, knowing that I had anxiety and depression, it makes me really sad that I missed out on socializing and parties. Even though deep down I feel like I would have felt uncomfortable at them anyways. Not sure if that makes sense or not. It's sort of feeling like I wish I could have enjoyed them even though the reality is that I probably wouldn't have enjoyed them much even if I had had the opportunity to socialize more.
[UPDATE] after almost canceling a job interview due to anxiety, I forced myself to go, went in there, and killed it!!!
I GOT AN OFFER!!!!!!I went back to pessimism and expecting the worst after a few days of not hearing back, but I did today, and they offered me the job!!!!! Higher pay, almost double the PTO, amazing benefits... I’M JUST SO EXCITED!!!! I know on my first day I’m gonna have massive anxiety and second guess everything and wish I stayed in my comfort zone but I don’t even care because this just proves to me that if I push through those nasty feelings I really can do anything!!Thank you so so so much to everyone that gave such kind words of support and encouragement. This has been a HUGE life changing step for me and it’s amazing to be able to share it with all of y’all.Edit: I promise I’m done bragging on myself after this but I just negotiated a (slightly, not by much but still!) higher salary as well! I’m over the moon, I can’t believe I’m me and I did this haha. Thank y’all, the support in this sub is unbelievable and I’m so glad these posts were able to motivate people. :) every single one of y’all has it in you!
Anyone ever get a surge of anxiety whenever your phone rings? Every time it goes off I just think “Fuck. I’m in trouble”.

I saw a saying that read "Never get so comfortable in pain that you forget happiness is still an option"
Just thought someone might need this.
3 years ago I was terrified of driving and refused to drive on the highway. Today here I am driving across the entire US!

I hope this can be helpful for those who get anxious. I’m still learning 

Went and tried to help my neighbor start his car! Pictured is exactly how I felt!

If you're reading this it means I did it
I'm really socially anxious and thinking about posting this is making it hard to breath and making me shake but I'm trying to get better and if you're reading this then it means I am taking a small step towards my goal and this is my first post so I'm even more anxious. I'm trying so hard from crying and deleting this post. I've probably wrote 50 different sentences and deleted them thinking it's not good enough and that people would be upset. I really don't want to but I got to try. It's been 15-20 minuets since I started to type all of this  and I'm really  scared on posting it. Please don't be too hard on me... I'm sorry for  the mess of the post  but if you're reading this it means I did it and thank you for reading.
Do you ever feel like people without an anxiety disorder have this magic "I don't care" button? Like they can just choose not to be bothered by something?

You know the anxiety is real when you always add an "lol" or "haha" to every text you send, for fear of thinking you are offending someone.

So I'm Iranian and I'm terrified right now.
Woke up 8 times last night and at some point I just gave up on sleeping. I tried not to fallow the news and just focus on something else but there's nothing I can do. Seriously what can you do when your country is on the edge of war and it's going to turn into another Syria? Not only that but I still haven't done my military service ( which is mandatory here ) and that could be how the regime is going to send me to war. Which all of this is making me consider suicide. If I'm going to die, I don't want to be at a war, I don't want to see the horrors of war and the destruction of my country, family and friends. I don't want to experience the hunger... If anything is going to kill me it has to be myself. Fuck all these politicians.
Your mental health is more important than the test, the interview, the meeting, the family dinner and the grocery run. Take care of yourself.
Have a blessed day!❤
yo FUCK anxiety

Does anyone else say "sorry" as an impulse?
I say it even when I don't mean to. It's so freaking annoying and I need to break the habit
To you reading this I hope you have a nice day and I hope you get over your anxity and remember to never lose hope, you are strong. ❤
Edit : thank you anonymous internet friend for my first gold ❤ Edit 2 : the fact that I made more than 1k people around the world feel lil better is crazy idea to think about ❤
Anyone else suffer from depression too and have to decide whether or not to drink coffee because it’s a choice between my anxiety being worse or being exhausted all day?
Holy crap I didn’t think this would get this far up there, thanks everybody it’s good to know I’m not alone. I’m sorry you guys have to experience this too though, I wish I could answer all the comments but just know I’ve read them all and they’re all appreciated! This sub is a fantastic group of people.
hello! i hope you guys are having a nice day. this is my therapy bunny. his name is chicken! he helps when i have anxiety attacks. this is him in his banana beanie!

TIL actress Kristen Bell has struggled with and received treatment for depression and anxiety. She said, "It's important for me to be candid about this so people in a similar situation can realize that they are not worthless and that they do have something to offer." : todayilearned

So yesterday I did a talk to a group of students regarding my battles with anxiety and depression...today they just offered me a job...they are willing to pay for my qualifications and offer me a position teaching mental health at their training centre ...you guys are my motivation ❤

How many of you guys lurk the anxiety subreddit but don't post/comment?
Because, anxiety. This is my first post though, so...progress?
Does anyone get so anxious about class that they don’t go, but then it makes your anxiety even worse because of the guilt from not going?

I went to groceries, i cleaned my appartment and I cooked myself a burger with potatoes for the first time in 3 months.
I just needed to tell anyone, I feel like I finally got my shit together for the first time in a long time.Edit: holy sh, this thread blew up ! Didn't expect that. I can't respond to everyone but thanks a lot for your support guys ! I had a cool day at work today and some of your comments were really awesome, thanks a lot ! I'll keep on doing me-stuff and having me-time as much as I can, starting today. And thanks for the 2 medals lol
Does anyone else get overwhelmed and anxious as soon as they have a responsibility to fulfil (answering a text, an email, etc.)?
I’m going back to law school next week, and a bunch of communication from volunteering groups, clubs, friends, etc. have started up again. I feel like crawling under my covers every time I think about having to schedule a meeting or return a phone call to someone. It hasn’t ever been this bad before. I don’t even want to answer texts from my friends that are back in town, because that means we need to get together. Ex: I had to send a mass email to a few organizations to see if they wanted to arrange a presentation with my volunteer group. I’ve already received a voicemail and an email in response. The idea of needing to respond and figure out logistics makes me body turn to stone. I just want to ignore it all and pretend I never heard back from anyone...Does this happen to anyone else? Do you snap out of it?
Unclench your jaw
Whoever needs this reminder :) I usually do
I’m anorexic and have several anxiety disorders and I went grocery shopping by myself for the first time in 6 months! ☺️
I’m 23 and female and this was just really reaffirming “It’s just really nice to win one.”- Kevin Malone EDIT** GUYS I didn’t expect to get so much love and kindness from you all!! This has quite literally made my day and in the running for my month lol.  These struggles are so rough and facing it everyday is really something.  But; struggling does not negate your strength.  We are infinite wells of resilience because we have to be, we all deserve love and kindness and warmth every single day.  ❤️❤️For reference these are my diagnoses:Generalized Anxiety DisorderSocial Anxiety DisorderPanic DisorderBody Dysmorphia  Anorexia NervosaPTSD from childhood emotional/physical abuse PTSD from being raped when I was 17PTSD from the illness and death of my mom at the age of 12 I’ve been unemployed for 6 months and my last job was in a RAMPANT environment of sexual harassment it was disgusting.I believe in you all.  Be gentle on yourself first and always.  Don’t let the world and your illness rule your life.  Filter what you take in and surround yourself with.  Thank you all. ❤️
Does anyone else replay their conversation in their heads and worry they said something that pissed the other person off?

Climbing the panic attack mountain (art)

Took a huge step. Went to see a therapist today. Had a panic attack while leaving went there crying and all. But I did go.
Feeling completely drained now. Am cocooning in my room now.Wow I love this response and all the encouragement and love. Thank you all. I am trying to respond to every comment. But it gets overwelhming. It will take time but I am reading every comment.
Best explanation I've read about how dealing with both depression and anxiety feels... [x-post r/depression]

My biggest fear is that my anxiety will always keep me in my "safe zone" causing me to live a life of mediocrity that I will one day really regret.
Currently trying to tackle this issue but its my biggest challenge. 
Anxiety isn’t cute, anxiety is thinking someone died because they haven’t messaged you in a day.
Either that or they hate you. 
understand this: you can sound confident & have anxiety. you can look healthy but feel like shit. You can look happy & be miserable inside. you can be good looking & feel ugly. so be kind, because every person is fighting a battle you know nothing about

Skipping classes for my mental health...which impacts my grades...which impacts my mental health.
✨ college ✨
PSA: NEVER let a bad day/week/month convince you that you haven't made any progress. You're better off now than you were a year ago, and you will persevere further.

Anxiety didn't win, I'm graduating high school in 4 hours!

Anyone else get anxiety when you notice the slightest change in how someone speaks/treats you

30 minutes after I finished drawing this, I had a major panic attack. Did I just draw my anxiety?

I always want to post in this subreddit but I know I’ll feel like a failure if I don’t get upvotes.
Does this happen to anyone else? I actually think this sub is a great tool for cathartic sharing among people with anxiety, and I know I could derive some benefit in allowing myself to post more. But there’s some silly irony in me thinking “Well what if this gets ignored? What if people think this is dumb or invalid?”. Even right now as I type this I think “Oh yeah this is so witty and meta, this will definitely get me to the top of the sub” which is so in line with every obsession I have about being special, being great, being loved, etc — and my inability to just do or enjoy the small things for what they are without some greater sense of meaning. EDIT: Ha, this blew up, how poetic. The joy or validation I feel from the upvotes doesn’t match the negativity I would have felt if it went unnoticed, which is good to know! You all are wonderful and this is a great community. I’ve come a long way with my anxiety and I’m working on a project to help and give back to those struggling and those who have helped me, so I hope to see you all here again. ❤️❤️❤️
I JUST CALLED INTO A PIZZA PLACE!!!
I'm still shaking. Making phone calls gives me the biggest anxiety. I asked whether it's not too late to have it delivered into my area. Person said no but that I'd have it better to order it online anyway. So it was a shorter and less complicated phone call than I was preparing for but that doesn't change the fact that I did it! I dialed the fuck out of that number, fucking killed it!! EAT A DICK, ANXIETY.Edit: I make a phone call and get my first gold in the same day?! This literally made my whole month. Your guys' support, advice and kind words on this post have been overwhelming. I did not expect it to blow up so much but I'm grateful it did. I'm so motivated and inspired by your words that I'm now less scared to push myself even further. Thank you all from the bottom of my heart. 
Does anyone else suppress their personality when speaking to new people and end up being a boring shell of a person and having really boring conversations because you don’t bring any life to them
Like, you won’t make the jokes that you think of making or use any slang that you normally use. I always start to speak like a TV presenter for some reason, all bland and weirdly emotionless and, like I said, no personality. Plus I’ll laugh way too much at jokes that weren’t that funny and it’s just ... weird. Idk if this makes sense 
Anxiety

"Trusting your gut feeling" is a lot more difficult when you have anxiety.
I often hear that when your gut tells you something, it's usually right. But how does this work when you're anxious about every little thing? I never know if it's a true warning or just my anxiety making something out of nothing. It's like my gut is crying wolf all the time. 
Sending everyone hugs tonight.
You know who you are. You’re me, obsessively refreshing the worldnews and politics thread because you can’t sleep and you can’t stop thinking about it.    And then you’re thinking about Australia and the fires, or the flu going around, or how your stomach has been in knots today and you didn’t eat dinner and now taking a shower seems impossible because there’s so much happening and you need to know what’s going to happen next.    I want you to know you’re not alone, no matter what happens. I may not know you, but I am right there with you, and we can share this together. No matter what happens.    Sending you all so many hugs.    ---    Dear everyone,    I am writing to let you know I am reading each and every single one of your comments. I made this post because I saw many posts talking about how scared folks are. Truth be told, I am scared too. I'm scared everyday. That's life with anxiety. Sometimes it is really small and it feels like I can just "ignore" it and put it in my back pocket, and sometimes it is really huge and like a gigantic elephant stomping around in my brain.    I recognize the tendency in myself to get caught up in negative feedback loops (including obsessively reading about horrible things and obsessing over current events) and decided I would post something somewhat different for us because sometimes, just being honest, coming to /r/anxiety can leave me feeling a bit more anxious, lol.    Whatever the case, I want to thank you all once again for taking the time to share your thoughts and feelings. It is good to know we're not alone. There are so many of us out there who want to see good things come out in the world. I want to share a passage that is comforting to me when things become difficult, and hope maybe it will be of some small comfort to y'all as well.    >"The life of Man is a long march through the night, surrounded by invisible foes, tortured by weariness and pain, towards a goal that few can hope to reach, and where none may tarry long. One by one, as they march, our comrades vanish from our sight, seized by the silent orders of omnipotent Death. Very brief is the time in which we can help them, in which their happiness or misery is decided. Be it ours to shed sunshine on their path, to lighten their sorrows by the balm of sympathy, to give them the pure joy of a never-tiring affection, to strengthen failing courage, to instil faith in hours of despair. Let us not weigh in grudging scales their merits and demerits, but let us think only of their need--of the sorrows, the difficulties, perhaps the blindnesses, that make the misery of their lives; let us remember that they are fellow-sufferers in the same darkness, actors in the same tragedy as ourselves. And so, when their day is over, when their good and their evil have become eternal by the immortality of the past, be it ours to feel that, where they suffered, where they failed, no deed of ours was the cause; but wherever a spark of the divine fire kindled in their hearts, we were ready with encouragement, with sympathy, with brave words in which high courage glowed."  - Bertrand Russell, A Free Man's Worship
Decided to face my fears head on! Went on my first flight since getting PTSD. Was quite concerned about how I’d cope. But used a new technique. Not so big and scary anymore are ya panic attacks!! Didn’t panic and feeling so much more confident for the next trip!

I'm sure this makes its rounds but still a good share nonetheless 

Im not stupid, im not unintelligent, im not slow, im just anxious.
Thats all I wanted to say really.
This gave me a chuckle today, hope it helps you :)

My moms view on anxiety...

The side of anxiety most people don’t understand.
Started a new job about a month ago, finally received my embroidered shirts that I’m required to wear. Go to put one on and it doesn’t fit, none of them do. Now I’m having to wear the plain t-shirt into work until they can order me more. I woke up 2 1/2 hours early to make sure I was ready. Now I’m sitting in a parking lot nearby being so nervous to have to tell my boss they don’t fit. Anxiety is having to go through every scenario possible that can happen when I go back in. My body hurts physically and I feel nauseous over this. All over a simple fix that will take him 5 seconds to handle in reality, but my brain doesn’t work that way. This sucks ☹️
My girlfriend killed herself a week after we broke up
Hello. I don't really know how to start this. I guess I'll tell you how I met my ex.Roughly 2 years ago, I was a patient in a psychiatric hospital. As a side note, I've struggled with depression for most of my life, and have had alcohol dependency issues for many many years. While I was in the hospital, I met this girl. We talked a few times, and she told me that she was being treated for depression also, though she didn't seem very depressed at first. She told me stories about her "previous life" as a med student, and how she failed out of med school. I found myself drawn to her charms. Not much later, she left the facility because the treatment wasn't working for her. I gave her my number, and she texted me that same day. For 2 weeks, we would text all day, talking about everything; mostly how bored we were, she with her life at her apartment all alone, and I with the therapies. We realized that we really liked each other and went out on a date. Then another, and another. I was so happy to have found someone who understood the things that I had been going through. We were a couple before we even knew it.Things were still difficult for both of us, but they were near perfect when it came to our relationship. I got discharged from the hospital and started focusing on healing myself before looking for a job. She was supposedly doing the same thing. She came over often, to the point where she would need to ask her mom to look after her cat while she was with me. She met my son. Things started getting more and more clear to me though. She slept a lot. And I mean A LOT, up to 18 hours a day. She was bored all the time. Thinking about finding a job gave her anxiety. There were days when she'd lay in bed all day, get up to do something, and then get an anxiety attack and need to get back in bed. I won't say that it wasn't somewhat tough on me too to see her like that, but I always hoped for it to get better. She'd have good days where she would meal prep for an entire week for the both of us, or make 3 paintings, or talk about going back to school, but it was the minority of her days. I loved her though, and despite her depression she was sweet and caring and funny, and she got along great with my son.After a year or so, I decided that I needed to start looking for a job. I found it so quickly that I was kind of stunned by it, but happy, of course. She was really happy for me too. I enjoyed my job at first, but found it pretty stressful, even from the beginning. Months passed, and the stress started building up. I started drinking again. Small amounts, at first. I tried to hide it from my girlfriend, but she caught on pretty quickly. She tried helping me. I wouldn't let her. The drinking got worse. I'd come home from the bar late at night to find her waiting up for me, and we'd argue, which I usually had forgotten the next morning because of how drunk I was. She told me that I shouted at her, insulted her, made her cry. I'd be so ashamed, ask her to forgive me, to please please please give me another chance, promised that I would stop drinking. And I would. For a while. Then it would all repeat itself again.One night I came home late again and we did the same old routine. The next morning, I found her in the garage with her bags packed. Said I had said all kinds of nasty things to her, as I had so many times before. But this time was different. She told me that I had said I didn't give a fuck about her. That I wanted her to leave. And when she started sobbing, I shouted at her to sob less loudly because I couldn't hear my music. I couldn't believe it, I just couldn't. At first I thought she was bluffing about leaving, but when she started silently crying I knew I had fucked up. I told her, of course I don't want you to leave. And then I begged her to stay. Her mom eventually arrived and took her away.I tried calling her so many times, on her cell and even her parents' landline. I got her mom on the phone once, and she confirmed that she was there, but she didn't want to talk to me. One week later, I got a call from her sister. She hanged herself. She apparently left a note, saying how lonely she was, and how I had been her only friend. How terrible it was to hear from her only friend that he didn't care. How it had been the last straw.I feel sick even writing this. I killed her. I killed the woman I loved. I've been sober for 5 months now, but it's not enough. It's never going to be enough. I feel so guilty. I miss her so much. Lately I've been feeling suicidal again myself. All I want is to be with her again. If I could only tell her how sorry I am. But I can't.Thanks for reading to the end.
Tonight, my grandma stopped me from killing myself without her realizing it.
I have it all planned - where my final notes are placed, the time I'll get out of the house and walk my way to the bridge I would jump off at, I got my room cleaned up for the last time. I was ready. If someone asked me why im doing these, I wont be able to give a reasonable answer.Almost 11pm here now, so 2 hours ago I have started walking my way out of the street when I heard a "pssst" after like 10meters of walking. It was my tiny grandma looking weirded out. I put on a big smile and hugged her and then she asked me where am i going. I panicked and told her im trying to buy something at the store. I dont know if she bought that reasoning but she wouldnt let go of the hug. She told me how i grew up so fast and to better hurry up finding a man so she could attend my wedding. She made me crack a genuine smile for the first time in a long time. It felt amazing. She told me to go back home and shower because I smell. I apologized and told her I will and im going to go back home.Now here I am on my bed, showered. I feel so numb and confused. I conditioned myself to accept the fact that ill stop breathing before this night ends and she will just pop up like that making me feel so good and recognized. I dont even know why i am typing all this out. Im sorry
I’m starting to feel like I’m meant to commit suicide the same way as someone else is meant to become a doctor or to get married. It’s just the path I was meant to take

I feel embarrassed but....does anyone else get extremely depressed and suicidal when you see a cute person and remember that you’ll always be single and never have a family of your own

i swear to god if there's an afterlife i'm gonna be so pissed
if i go through all the fucking trouble of coming up with this shitty plan just to wake up on some couch in hell wih satan being life "enjoy existing forever" imma fucking beat his ass
throwing away my blades today
been self harming since 12, i’m 22. i’m 3 days self harm free.going to throw my blades away today and fight the good fight.wish me luck, fellas
Raped in front of my girlfriend. feeling like giving up.
 I don't know what to say or do, I just feel like my life is falling apart.Three weeks ago My apartment was broken into by 4 strangers, my girlfriend was sleeping over. It was an awful, horrific long night, and she witnessed every single thing. 8 hours of prolonged humiliation and abuse.These 4 strangers destroyed me. They shredded every bit of self-esteem and sanity I had. After the hell they put me through, they simply left me there. bleeding heavily and stunned. My girlfriend was tied up screaming, but I didn't move. It took me a while to comprehend that this is now my reality and eventually get up.Weeks later, I am paranoid, unable to look at my reflection without feeling disgust, and I spend my time in my university lectures thinking about ending my life. I didn't tell a single soul about this because I feel so ashamed. I feel pathetic and weak. My girlfriend is the only one that knows, though everyone around has been telling me I've been ignoring them lately and calling me an asshole for it, yet I don't care. I just feel numb. I want to die, but I'm too afraid to say it out loud. That night they not only violently violated me, but they took something from me, a piece of my soul.Anyways, ever since that night my girlfriend has been acting different. she treats me differently, touches me differently, and most importantly she looks at me differently. A few days ago while we were sitting together, she told me that it's alright if this experience turns me "gay" and that we don't have to continue dating. this is coming from a 19 year old girl that has common sense, it all just made me feel really bad. It just reflected how after all this, how disgusting I feel was valid, that I am gross in her eyes now.Today is my birthday, I turn 20. I bailed on all the plans and decided to spend it alone. I'm sitting at home drinking alcohol and thinking about bashing my goddamn face in. I just feel alone in a way I never felt before. I just never thought this is where I'd be, that this would be my life.I hope I'm posting this in the correct place, I've only had Reddit when I was younger. thanks for listening for whoever is out there. Hopefully I'll feel better for writing this.UPDATE 1:Two of the assailants were caught by the police today. I’ll post a more detailed update in the next few days. Thank you everyone for this support.UPDATE 2:sorry I’m late with this, I’ve just been going through a lot. I’m gonna try to give everyone a bit of closure on everything that’s went down. The four assailants were part of a sex trafficking gang that my shitty dad got involved with and owed a lot of money. I’m not comfortable sharing the details of this specific aspect, but I hope this general explanation is enough. Two of them were caught and will be most likely going to prison as they plead guilty to avoid a trial. I’m currently trying to get myself together, but things have been getting worse and worse mentally. I’ve been going to gym, jogging and trying my best to not lose it, I didn’t start therapy, but I’m considering it. Me and my girlfriend broke up and there’s no bad blood. I just need to focus on myself. And again, thank you everyone for the immense support you’ve given me. You have no idea how much it saved me and made me feel a little less alone. Thank you.
Not a single person actually cares unless you kill yourself
If you say you're so depressed you can't function it's "Aw it'll get better" and they forget about you. Then when you kill yourself everyone's like "Oh I never would've thought, I wish he would've given some sort of sign."I said how many times I want to kill myself and I think I might do it, but I know if I do people will act like it's a huge surprise.I've been serious all along. I have a rope tied into a noose in a box in my room, so that it's always ready. I'm not joking or just looking for attention when I tell people I need some kind of help. Everybody only pretends to care and then when you're dead tries to say they cared all along
I am never "suicidal enough" to be heard. I am too well-dressed, too articulate, too friendly "too" everything to be worthy of any support.
And I am gradually withering away because of it.Mental health professionals never take me seriously. I can see it in the hint of amusement in their eyes, their disengaged body language, their patronising tone of voice. They say I'm "too" well-dressed, "too" articulate, "too" intelligent. I am "too" kind, I smile "too" often, I'm "too" calm.This has not only been offensive to me, but it is such an insult to people who are mentally ill and suicidal. Their implication that suicidal people are dumb, frenzied and rude slobs was - and still is - fucking preposterous.I have tried to get help for approximately 8 years. I have begged and pleaded and been reduced to tears. But unless I'm trying to end my life right now in front of them, it doesn't matter. None of it matters. I don't matter. My public face is "too" convincing. But this was carefully created and crafted, over many years, because I had no choice. I had no option but to hide the abuse and isolation and pain I have suffered behind a smile. I was never given an alternative, and when someone glimpsed the reality behind this façade, they did nothing.The truth is, a part of me is frightened of dying, and my survival instincts kick in when I don't want them to. But that doesn't mean I want to live, either. If I could switch off this deeply ingrained fear and just be done with it, I would. Why do we have to kill ourselves or almost die before people care? Why do we have to present ourselves in a specific way before we even get listened to? Why do they wait until every glimmer of hope and willingness to live has been stamped out? I hate this. I hate my life. I hate myself. Let me be what they want me to be, please.**EDIT:** I never ever _ever_ consider others as "dumb, frenzied, rude slobs" by the way. I'm so sorry if I made anyone feel that way. It's simply how I interpret the reaction of mental health professionals, when they say "But you're so clever/hygienic/pretty/well-groomed" etc. It feels like a slap in the face, as though suicidal people are looked down on if they are well presented, and looked down on if they are not, too (but the latter apparently ticks more boxes from their point of view).If someone is unkempt, hasn't showered, is visibly distressed or less coherent, I do NOT judge them or advocate doing so. _But using someone's appearance as a way of invalidating their pain? That's **completely** wrong._**EDIT 2:** Thank you everyone for your supportive comments and sharing your experiences on this subject. It means a lot to me and although it is awful that this resonates with so many people, it also brings me comfort. I am sorry for not responding to everyone yet. If you have had a similarly invalidating experience, I am so sorry. I appreciate the difficulty internalising this, but it is _not_ your fault. You are not to blame for the misconduct of any medical professional, who ought to know better than to belittle us during our darkest and most vulnerable moments.In positive developments, the crisis team visited me at home this evening. Both mental health nurses listened to me, emphasised that the way I was treated for the last 8 years was unacceptable, completely validated my feelings and showed a lot of empathy. It has restored a little bit of faith in the NHS. They are going to report back to the psychiatry team and recommend that I be allocated a Care Co-ordinator, who will be able to assist me with being prescribed the correct forms of treatment and provide support with finances and social connections. I have not allowed myself to anticipate too much, but I cried with relief after they left. I hope they keep their word. I hope they meant it. I desperately just hope. Until I receive an outcome, I will sincerely try to stay alive. I am not in a position to promise that I will survive, but I can promise that I will try, one more time.
I receive two messages a day, one that my phone is at 15%, and the other that my phone is at 5%.
edit: Thank you for the kind words everyone, each and every one of you brightened my day a bit. Also GOLD HYPERS!
Just called the suicide hotline
... and was asked to please 'watch my language.'The actual fuck.Yea, I have a mouth on me. Yea, I have an attitude problem. But how the FUCK you going to work at a suicide hotline, even the fucking graveyard shift (heh -- suicide hotline; graveyard shift -- heh), and tell callers their language BOTHERS you? How you gonna LET that language bother you? It's WORDS, you fucking TWAT-NOZZLE. It's a HURTING HUMAN expressing herself.Jesus fuck.
I hate how people dismiss us when we openly say that we are suicidal but when someone keep quiet and kill them selves people be shocked like “They never said anything I didn’t know” WAKE TF UP AND LOVE ME STOP DISMISSING HOW I FEEL
My parents kicked me out for being suicidal, now a family friend killed himself and they are all suffering not knowing why because he was relatively “happy” and had a good life... Meanwhile my mother while I was panicking she handed me a knife.
Sorry folks, we've got a troll: Please message the moderators if you get harassed via PM after posting here.
We are **so** sorry that this is necessary.In recent days we've been targeted by a PM troll who's been sending pro-suicide messages to people after they post here.  The admins have suspended the main account this person was using, and they're looking out for alts, but if these types of individuals sometimes try to get around their site-wide bans.  We feel it's better to let you know this might happen again so that you can be forewarned, and also so that if it does happen, we and the reddit community team will be alerted as soon as possible.If you get a hateful, pro-suicide PM, please be aware that this person is doing this indiscriminately, and they probably haven't even read what you posted, so it's *not about you*.  If you don't think you could handle receiving something like that, we completely understand.  In that case, your best protection is to set your messaging preference so that you can receive PMs from trusted users only before you post (anywhere, not just here) about your struggles.  On desktop you can do that here: (On mobile, it depends which app or browser you're using.)  
I wish I could swap places with a person who died that wanted to live.
There’s so many people in this world who wanted to live, but died too young in a cruel twist of fate. Cancer. Car accident. Murder. I feel so selfish that I’m still here instead, when I don’t even want to be. If I could swap places with a person like that, I’d do it without hesitation. At this point I’m only alive out of a sense of obligation.
People always say; "just" get a job, "just" find a new hobby, "just" go for a walk, "just" make new friends. Newsflash: IT DOESN'T FUCKING WORK.
Every conversation I have had about suicide in recent memory with mental health professionals or volunteers has included variations of the following:"Have you considered listening to music?""Have you considered going for a walk?""Have you considered taking up a new hobby?""Have you considered making new friends?""Have you considered volunteering/getting a job?"It happens every time. It happens in every conversation. It happened yesterday, and it happened twenty minutes ago. I finally summoned the courage to text a helpline for the first time because I just can't call one, and this is the only "help" I received.Fuck yes. Fuck yes I have _considered_ every possible option and opportunity to make me **not** imagine shooting a bullet in my skull or dragging a blade across my throat or tying a rope around my neck.Here's the problem: **It never works.**I have had meaningful employment and voluntary roles that I genuinely enjoyed. I have socialised and met plenty of lovely people. I have spent the last six years in a loving and nurturing relationship with a wonderful man. I have taken long, beautiful strolls in nature by the river. I have fed the ducks and petted dogs and helped the elderly and looked after children. I have listened to music and played the piano and sang my favourite songs. The thing is, I can't walk without imagining myself hurling my body in front of a car, or drowning in the lake, or lying on the train tracks. I can't bake a cake from scratch without imagining myself plunging the kitchen knife into my wrists and bleeding out all over the counter. I can't meet new people without withdrawing, isolating myself and remembering that I am a burden. I am a parasite. I am worthless and I need to just die. I can't trust anyone because I have been abused and broken and betrayed so profoundly that everyone feels like a potential threat, the next predator. I can't work or volunteer or commit to anything without my joints aching and my bones creaking, without my mind spiralling and without my energy slipping away until I can barely move anymore. I can't enjoy a hug with my boyfriend without imagining him choking the life out of me. I can't do **anything** without wanting to die and picturing the multitude of ways I could end my life. I could be having an amazing day and feel so much relief because wow, for once I feel _good_. The thoughts will linger in the background and watch. They will creep a little closer and whisper in my ear and stand in front of me then climb inside my brain to remind me that they are still here - that they will **always** be here, no matter what I do to distract myself, to find hope, to find meaning. I'm lost. I'm lonely. I'm alienated. I'm tired. It is so difficult to find people who understand, because "try not to kill yourself" is not a part of everyone's daily routine. It's not on everyone's to-do list.I have considered everything. I have tried everything. And I still want to die. Every. Fucking. Day.~Edit: Thank you all so much for your kindness and support. It means so much. I am working my way through the replies to this post and a previous post. It might take time because I have a lot of messages, but I will reach you all one by one. Thank you. <3
anyone else just staying alive for other people at this point?
i shouldn’t be so miserable. i have a roof over my head and a family that loves me. i have money and can afford luxuries. i go to therapy and take medicine. i have three pets (one a puppy we recently adopted). but i just want to die. i’m so lonely, constantly. my heart is so broken and i’m so exhausted i just want to give up and finally kill myself. but i don’t want to hurt my family. i don’t want to think about my dogs waiting for me to come back and not knowing where i’ve gone. i don’t want my mum and dad to blame themselves for it. there are some people who’d be glad to see me go. my older sister & youngest sister, most likely. my former friends. idk. all i do is disappoint others, i lose them. i can’t do anything. i’m so useless i can’t even kill myself. haha. i’m tired.
Being suicidal throughout your young adult years is very strange and leaves you in a weird place when you hit your 20s because you never really had a plan to get this far to begin with, never mind have a plan for the next 50+ years.

Does anyone else have this really destructive pattern of feeling suicidal and ruining everything in your life because you think you won’t be around to deal with it, only to fail or not even attempt suicide and have to try to pick up the pieces?

Watch out for a PM scammer asking people to purchase items from an amazon wishlist.
Hey everyone, just a heads up that we're receiving a flurry of reports about this in our modmail.  It doesn't get much lower than trying to suck money out of a community like ours with a sob story.   We thank all the good citizens who've let us know, and we have reached out to the admins about this person.  But please be aware that we as community moderators can't see or police PMs.  It will help a lot if everyone who received a PM of this nature reports it directly to the admins, either by using the report function within the PM itself, or by using [reddit.com/report](https://www.reddit.com/report).  Also, just in case it doesn't go without saying, do not spend any money for this individual.  The last thing we'd want is for them to get the idea that SW is good victim-hunting territory.  
I’ve decided that I won’t kill my self

Chocolate saved my life
My last serious suicide attempt was in July 2018. I had booked a hotel in a nearby city for two days for ''a conference'' and randomly packed up so it wouldn't be suspicious to my mom. I didn't want to do it in my room because in a way I didn't want to defile it? I don't know how to explain it. My plan was to do it as soon as I got to the hotel because thinking about it and postponing makes it more difficult and I wanted to make sure nothing would stop me. I opened my suitcase to grab my toiletries bag that had my pills but when I opened the suitcase, something dropped on the floor. It was my favorite chocolate, 70% dark cocoa with candied orange bits. It had a little heart sticker sticked on the wrapper. My heart dropped and I couldn't stop crying. Eventually I think I fell asleep on the floor holding the chocolate and when I woke up, I felt something I hadn't felt in years. I felt loved. My mom put that chocolate there to surprise me because she knows how sometimes I'll forget to eat when I'm overworked. Just wanted to share that with you because I could really use that chocolate today. I really could.
Is anyone else entering the New Year wishing they were dead?

Does anyone else constantly teeter between planning how to kill yourself and planning how to fix your life?

People don't give a fuck about you until you're dead. I fucking hate humanity

Does anybody not worry about their future because they don't expect to be alive by then?
I don't even care anymore, since I know I'll end up jumping off a building before I actually have to do something with my life. It's relieving actually
I wanted to jump off a bridge, but I got a burrito instead.
I bought a second one and gave it to a homeless guy hanging outside the restaurant. It made me feel a bit better for the rest of the night.
I wish I could donate my time on Earth to people who really deserve to live. I'm not enjoying my stay.

You ever just leave an awkward conversation and think “Wow. I should really just kill myself.”?
That’s how all my relationships go. It’s no wonder nobody wants to be around me voluntarily. Sure, I can make people laugh but that’s where my conversational ability ends. I don’t leave conversations feeling like I made a new friend or that I matter to people.
No one cares about your life until you say you want to end it

Just called suicide hotline. Thanks, Tom.
I called the suicide hotline because I’ve been sad for a long time. Had enough norco to overdose and almost did. Instead, I called a suicide hotline and was connected with Tom. He coached cross country. I run cross country and track for my university. He said he is now a fan of my team and will watch for my name on the leaderboards. Thanks for giving me even the slightest reason to keep going, Tom. 
New wiki on how to avoid accidentally encouraging suicide, and how to spot covert incitement
We've been seeing a worrying increase in pro-suicide content showing up here and, and also going unreported. This undermines our purpose here, so we wanted to highlight and clarify our guidelines about both direct and indirect incitement of suicide.  We've created a wiki that covers these issues.  We hope this will be helpful to anyone who's wondering whether something's okay here and which responses to report.  It explains in detail why *any* validation of suicidal intent, even an "innocent" message like "if you're 100% committed, I'll just wish you peace" is likely to increase people's pain, and why it's important to report even subtle pro-suicide comments. The full text of the wiki's current version is below, and it is maintained at [/r/SuicideWatch/wiki/incitement](http://www.reddit.com/r/SuicideWatch/wiki/incitement). We deeply appreciate everyone who gives responsive, empathetic, non-judgemental support to our OPs, and we particularly thank everyone who's already been reporting incitement in all forms.  Please report any post or comment that encourages suicide (or that breaks any of the other guidelines in the sidebar) to the moderators, either by clicking the "report" button or by [sending us a modmail](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSuicideWatch) with a link. We deal with all guideline violations that are reported to us as soon as we can, but we can't read everything so community reports are essential. If you get a PM that breaks the guidelines, please report it both [to the reddit sitewide admins](http://www.reddit.com/report) and to us in modmail. Thanks to all the great citizens of the community who help flag problem content and behaviour for us.          *********[/r/SuicideWatch/wiki/incitement](http://www.reddit.com/r/SuicideWatch/wiki/incitement)***  *******###Summary###**It's important to respect and understand people's experiences and emotions. It's never necessary, helpful, or kind to support suicidal intent. There are some common misconceptions (discussed below) about suicidal people and how to help them that can cause well-meaning people to inadvertently incite suicide. There are also people online who incite suicide on purpose, often while pretending to be sympathetic and helpful.** ###Validate Feelings and Experiences, Not Self-Destructive Intentions###We're here to offer support, not judgement.  That means accepting, with the best understanding we can offer, whatever emotions people express.  Suicidal people are suffering, and we're here to try to ease that by providing support and caring.  The most reliable way we know to de-escalate someone at risk is to give them the experience of feeling understood. That means not judging whether they should be feeling the way they are, or telling them what to do or not do.  But there's an important line to draw here.  There's a crucial difference between empathizing with feelings and responding non-judgmentally to suicidal thoughts, and in any way endorsing, encouraging, or validating suicidal intentions or hopeless beliefs. Anything that condones suicide, even passively, *encourages* suicide. It isn't supportive and does not help. It also violates reddit's sitewide rules as well as our guidelines. Explicitly inciting suicide online is a criminal offense in most jurisdictions. Do not treat any OP's post as meaning that will definitely die by suicide and can't change their minds or be helped. Anyone who's able to read the comments here still has a chance to choose whether or not to try to keep living, even if they've also been experiencing intense thoughts of suicide, made a suicide plan, or started carrying it out.  In [the most useful empirical model we have](https://www.apa.org/science/about/psa/2009/06/sci-brief), the desire to die by suicide primarily comes from two interpersonal factors; alienation and a sense of being a burden or having nothing to offer. These factors usually lead to a profound feeling of being unwelcome in the world. **So, any acceptance or reinforcement of suicidal intent, even something "innocent" like "I hope you find peace", is actually a form of covert shunning that validates a person's sense that they're unwelcome in the world. It will usually add to their pain even if kindly meant and gently worded.**  ###How to Avoid Validating Suicidal Intent###Keep the following in mind when offering support to anyone at risk for suicide.  * **People who say they don't want help usually can feel better if they get support that doesn't invalidate their emotions.** Unfortunately, [many popular "good" responses are actually counterproductive](https://www.speakingofsuicide.com/2015/03/03/what-not-to-say/). In particular, many friends and family tend to rely exclusively on trying to convince the suicidal person that "it's not so bad", and this is usually experienced as "I don't understand what you're going through and I'm not going to try".  People who've had "help" that made them feel worse don't want any more of the same.  It doesn't mean that someone who actually knows how to be supportive can't give them any comfort.   *  **Most people who are suicidal want to end their** ***pain,*** **not their lives.**  It's almost never true that death is the only way to end these people's suffering. Of course there are exceptional situations, and we certainly acknowledge that, for some people, the right help can be difficult to find. But preventing someone's suicide doesn't mean prolonging their suffering if we do it by giving them real comfort and understanding. * ***An unfixable problem doesn't mean that a good life will never be possible***.  We don't have to fix or change anything to help someone feel better. It's important to keep in mind that the correlation between our outer circumstances and our inner experience is weaker and less direct than commonly assumed.  For every kind of difficult life situation, you will find some people who lapse into suicidal despair, and others who cope amazingly well, and a whole spectrum in between. A key difference is how much inner resilience the person has at the time. This can depend on many personal and situational factors. But when there's not enough, interpersonal support can both compensate for its absence and help rebuild it.  We go into more depth on the "it gets better" issue in [this PSA Post](https://www.reddit.com/r/SuicideWatch/comments/25igd7/whats_wrong_with_it_gets_better_what_if_it_doesnt/) which is always linked from our sidebar (community info on mobile) guidelines. * **There are** ***always*** **more choices than brutally forcing someone to stay alive or passively letting them end their lives**.To avoid accidentally breaking the anti-incitement rule, don't say or try to imply that acting on suicidal thoughts is a good idea, or that someone can't turn back or is already dead.  Do whatever you can to help them feel cared for and welcome, at least in this little corner of the world.  [Our talking tips](http://redd.it/igh87) offer more detailed guidance.###Look Out for Deliberate Incitement.  It May Come in Disguise.###Often comments that subtly encourage suicidal intent actually come from suicide fetishists and voyeurs ([unfortunately this is a real and disturbing phenomenon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Francis_Melchert-Dinkel)). People like this *are* out there and the anonymous nature of reddit makes us particularly attractive to them.  They will typically try to scratch their psychological "itch" by saying things that push people closer to the edge.  They often do this by exploiting the myths that we debunked in the bullet points above.  Specifically you might see people doing the following:* Encouraging the false belief that the only way suicidal people can end their pain is by dying.  **There are** ***always*** **more and better choices than "brutally forcing someone to stay alive" or helping (actively or passively) them to end their lives**.* Creating an artificial and toxic sense of "solidarity" by linking their encouragement of suicide to empathy.  They will represent themselves as the only one who really understand the suicidal person, while either directly or indirectly encouraging their self-loathing emotions and self-destructive impulses.  **Since most people in suicidal crisis are in desperate need to empathy and understanding, this is a particularly dangerous form of manipulation.**  Many suicide inciters are adept at putting a benevolent spin on their activities while actually luring people away from sources of real help.  A couple of key points to keep in mind: * **Skilled suicide intervention -- peer or professional -- is based on empathic responsiveness to the person's feelings that reduces their suffering in the moment.**  Contrary to pop-culture myths, it does **not** involve persuasion ("Don't do it!"), cheerleading ("You've got this!") or meaningless false promises ("Trust me, it gets better!"), or invalidation ("Let me show you how things aren't as bad as you think!").  Anyone who leads others to expect these kinds of toxic responses, or any other response that prolongs their pain, from expert help may be covertly pro-suicide. (Of course, people sometimes do have bad experience when seeking mental-health treatment, and it's fine to vent about those, but processing our own disappointment and frustration is entirely different from trying to destroy someone else's hope of getting help.)* **Choices made by competent responders are always informed by the understanding that breaching someone's trust is traumatic and must be avoided if possible.**  Any kind of involuntary intervention is an **extremely unlikely** outcome when someone consults a clinician or calls a hotline. (Confidentiality is addressed in more detail in [our Hotlines FAQ post](http://redd.it/1c7ntr)). The goal is always to provide all help with the client's full knowledge and informed consent. We know that no individual or system is perfect.  Mistakes that lead to bad experiences do sometimes happen to vulnerable people, and we have enormous sympathy for them. But anyone who suggests that this is the norm might be trying to scare people away from the help they need.  Please [let us know discreetly](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSuicideWatch) if you see anyone exhibiting these or similar behaviours. We don't recommend trying to engage with them directly.
3 days ago was my birthday, I should’ve done it but my dog and a redditor saved my life
3 days ago was my birthday. I am getting depressed when my birthday comes since it is supposed to be a happy day, but I know that nothing special will happen.My birthday was the worst, my friends didn’t even greet me, my boss fired up for some reason that wasn’t my fault and got mad at me, I ate alone and like nobody cares about me. I treated myself a good meal for my birthday, an Italian Spaghetti and Pepperoni Pizza. I thought of that as my last meal, and had cookies and cream ice cream for dessert. I would end it that night, or the day after tomorrow. I evaluated all the important persons in my life if I leave them. My mother would hurt, but I know she can manage. My brother doesn’t even care about me. My girlfriend is just using me since if she doesn’t have me, she’s nothing, and that’s the only reason why I haven’t left her since I know once I did that, she’ll kill herself. My “bestfriend” only talks to me when he have problems but when It is me who has problems, he’s not replying to me so I think I wouldn’t be a big loss for him. After hours of thinking and finally decided to do it, I remembered my dog. He would never understand what happened to me if I’d kill myself. I can’t stand the fact that he’ll wait for me to come back after a week, a month, a year, or until the day he dies because I am already dead. I cried and hugged my dog tightly. “You saved my life buddy. You’re the reason I’m still here” I said to him while he just stands there staring at me. After that, I just browsed reddit just today and saw something on my inbox. A stranger awarded my last post with a silver. “God loves you. Be easy on yourself.” He said to me. At that moment, I started to cry like a fucking bitch because even if I didn’t know him/her, I felt that someone hugged me and concerned about me. To you random redditor who gave a silver (I consider it a gold because of your kind words), I wanted to let you know that it is you who made my birthday special. I love you. To my dog, Bay, you’re the greatest doggo of all. Imma buy you all the treats you want. You’re the reason why I’m here. I love you so much.EDIT: WHAT THE FUCK GUYS MY INBOX IS GETTING FLOODED WITH SUPPORT, SILVERS AND A PLATINUM. I DIDN’T EXPECT THAT. I NEVER FELT LOVED LIKE THIS BEFORE. TO ALL WHO MESSAGED ME SAYING THAT THEY ARE GLAD THAT I’M STILL HERE, THANK YOU SO MUCH. ALSO THOSE PEOPLE WHO COMMENTED ON THIS POST. I CAN’T REPLY TO YOU ALL ONE BY ONE BUT THANK YOU SO MUCH. IMMA LET MY DOG KNOW THAT HE GOT SO MUCH RECOGNITION FOR BEING SUCH A GOOD BOI. THANK YOU SO MUCH STRANGERS WHO MADE ME FELT THAT THEY LOVE ME AND CARE FOR ME SO MUCH. I LOVE YOU!!!!!!! ❤️❤️❤️
Sleep is great because it's like being dead without hurting your family.

I've gone to a hotel at the other end of the country to kill myself
I'm due to head back tomorrow, at least that's what I've told people. I've quit my job because it's fucking pointless. None of this matters, life is arbitrary. We're thrown into a system completely devoid of any compassion, this isn't life, this is servitude and I refuse to play along anymore. I'm so fucking tired of plastering a smile on my face and pretending like everything is going to be okay. Have you looked at the news lately? Everything is falling apart around us, the planet is on fire, people are being rounded up, privacy is non-existent and we're told repeatedly that we have no value unless we've been commoditized. Buy this, buy that, you need this random, useless tatt but we don't! We don't *need* any of it but it's still rammed down our throats day in, day out, bombarding us from every fucking direction and I'm just exhausted. I can't do this for another 40 years, I'm done, I'm checking out and I don't mean from the hotel. I'm going to have a large gin and tonic while I run a bath. It might relax me amd there's a niggling voice at the back of mind screaming "PLEASE DON'T DO THIS" but I don't want to listen anymore. Mum, if by chance you happen to read this, please know that I love you and I'm truly, truly sorry for putting you through this. For what it's worth I'm so glad that you enjoyed Silverstone. I love you. I love you I fucking love you and im sorryEdit: I'm still here. This has been the most difficult 24 hours of my life but I'm still here. I took the train back today and told my mum I needed to speak to her urgently, as soon as I saw her I told her I loved her, I told her why I went to a hotel and then I broke down in tears like an absolute mess. She told me she couldn't stand the thought of burying one of her sons, we hugged and I cried on her for about 20 minutes. I'm back at home now and reading most of the responses here has been overwhelming. I still don't think I can go on, but I think I'm going to at least try, until it becomes unbearable again anyway.
This quote about suicide is feeling far too accurate
"The so-called ‘psychotically depressed’ person who tries to kill herself doesn’t do so out of quote ‘hopelessness’ or any abstract conviction that life’s assets and debits do not square. And surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. The person in whom Its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high-rise. Make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. Their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view; i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. The variable here is the other terror, the fire’s flames: when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. It’s not desiring the fall; it’s terror of the flames. And yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling ‘Don’t!’ and ‘Hang on!’, can understand the jump. Not really. You’d have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling."This quote is from Infinite Jest by David Foster Wallace.I'm honestly starting to feel the flames, and the jump is looking far too comforting.
I’m an attractive white man from a wealthy family. The odds were always in my favor. I think I’m gonna shoot myself in the face.
I don’t expect you to read this, just need somewhere to vent. Here I am again, sitting alone in front of my tiny space heater, trying to find a reason to keep going. It doesn’t help that it’s Christmas Eve. I’m basically a 24 year old virgin and have spent holidays alone for the past 5 years. I remember Bill Burr said at like 39yrs old he stopped going home for the holidays. I envy that. At 18 I went to college across the country to get away from my abusive mother, even picked a college she hated (“it would embarrass [her]”). Speaking of college, I’m still unsure whether I was raped/molested. It’s hard to say when you wake up to some guy in your bed. The not knowing really pisses me the fuck off.To this day my mom doesn’t think she’s done any wrong. Then after I dropped out I went back home for a little bit. I don’t know what I expected. A year or two later I move across the country again to get away. Now I am truly and utterly alone. I’m currently on my 22nd or 23rd dead-end job. Honestly can’t believe I’ve lasted so long at this one. I guess I look up to the store manager a lot and don’t want to let him down. I’ve seen a hundred therapists, been on a million different meds, went to rehab for 5 months, and I feel worse now than I ever have. Depression, anxiety, paranoia, they’re all too minor to describe what I feel. Had my first suicidal thought at 9yrs old. Probably got borderline personality disorder too. Never been in a real relationship. I was with a girl in high school for a couple months maybe. We sorta had sex once but I wouldn’t even call it that. Every girl I’ve tried to pursue since either wasn’t interested or I didn’t try hard enough / didn’t have enough experience to understand what they wanted me to do. Doesn’t help that I grew up afraid of my mother and hating her. Then all my fuckups with girls just added to my pain. Dating apps don’t work it’s like my account is invisible. At this point I don’t try whatsoever. It’s as if I’ve been conditioned to not make a move. And the ironic part is I look like a model (genes, muscles, six-pack), dress well, and I’m actually very smart. The few parties I’ve ever gone to girls basically threw themselves at me and I would freak out, have a panic attack, and then leave. Alcohol didn’t help. I’m not gay. I’m just broken. A beautiful girl might look at me and give all the signs that she wants me to talk to her. She might even come talk to me first. I’ll just shut down. Afterward I’ll get angry at myself, so I’ve stopped going places where I might meet a girl because I know what’s going to happen. I’ve always found it interesting how much I relate to “ugly” guys who won’t pursue a woman because they know what will happen. And those guys take one look at me and hate me. It’s like they’re thinking “man, if I could just trade places with that guy.” Hahaha ain’t shit would change, man. You’d be just as alone and maybe feel worse than you already do.At this point the only reason I haven’t shot myself in the face is because of my dog. My cat wouldn’t give a shit but I can’t do that to my dog. I just can’t. The sad part though is dogs vibe off you and adopt your personality, meaning he’s gone from an angel to anxious and quick to fight other dogs. So, maybe it’d be for the best if he had a different owner. Can’t exactly take him to the dog park anymore. And I’m sure you can tell how close I am to suicide because I know exactly where to shoot. For your sake I’ll spare the details. I don’t know why I’m writing this I guess the holidays are pushing me over the edge. I just can’t be alone anymore. The girl I like is a coworker who shut me down for a different coworker who went and cheated on her. And now I feel like maybe she’s expecting me to make another move?? I don’t know. But the way I am, I’m not gonna pursue a girl who shut me down. You know how hard it was to tell her how I feel? Couldn’t even do it in person had to send some stupid message. Now I have to see her every day. I guess that’s why you don’t ask out people from work. I have panic attacks every night and the thin walls in this ghetto apartment complex do NOT help, nor do the gunshots down the street. I have no one to call. My dad kind of understands what I’m going through but there’s only so much he can handle. Every time I talk to him I feel like he’s about to have a heart attack. My brother says I have an illness that just needs to be treated. I feel like he thinks I just want attention. Obviously I don’t talk to my mom. And the suicide hotline?!?! Don’t get me started. It’s like they want you to die. The two real friends I had forgot about me once they found girlfriends. I don’t know how much time I have left, and I always thought I was destined for big things. You’re all I have left, reddit. You and my dog. Shit, the cat probably wants me gone. If you read this far, thank you from the bottom of my heart.EDIT: Thank you everyone, this was more helpful than rehab. And yes I love my cat. He’s actually really interesting, basically a real-life Garfield.EDIT 2: I think Dave Chappelle said it best when he talked about Anthony Bourdain. That’s why I used that title. I can’t stand when people think I “have it all,” so how can I be so unhappy. Anyway thank you again, everyone. And thank you for the platinum, whatever it means, that made my day.EDIT 3: I am either delusional or my coworkers read this post. Not sure which is worse. But it really feels like one of them read it and passed that shit along like a hot potato. I hear them talking and I hope it’s just confirmation bias but it sounds like they’re talking and laughing about what I wrote. WHY ARE YOU LAUGHING YOU FUCKS?! More gossip to gobble up? One of the guys here tried to have a real talk with me, “how bad are these intrusive thoughts getting?” I haven’t been acting different at work. Why would he ask me that? I did have people contact me saying they weren’t on this sub but found it just scrolling through r/all, so I don’t know how many people actually read this. I guess it’s possible someone I know came across it. Funny that I care when I’m so close to ending it all. Glad I got it off my chest though, was a huge weight lifted. And the support from you guys was unreal. I didn’t respond to everyone but I read every single message and comment. Speaking of which, you trolls can go fuck yourselves. It takes a special kind of twisted fuck to hide behind a keyboard and say that shit. But it turns out this post helped some people?? That’s such a foreign feeling for me I didn’t believe them. I don’t know why I’m still writing. I just hate being me. Need this life shit to end.
I hate how when you’re depressed you just forget everything. You forget to do stuff and you forget the stuff you did. Time passes without you realising and instead of doing nothing for ten minutes you did nothing for three hours but you didn’t even realise you were actually living.

Anyone else here "suicidal but not suicidal"?
I'm suicidal, but not *suicidal.*Know what I mean?In other words, I'm not "suicidal"-suicidal.Know what I mean?That's not to say I'm doing it for attention, though, either. (That's a common assumption/misconception). My pain is very real. My feelings of wanting to die are pretty genuine.Basically:**I was just wondering if there was anyone else out there who, like me, has decided *not* to kill oneself—essentially, to continue living—despite the persistence of suicidal thoughts/feelings/ideations/wishes.**I will not kill myself.But some days, I really don't want to be alive anymore.
Has anyone been suicidal for so long but don’t have the courage to end it so you end up isolating yourself from everyone so people forget you eventually?
I’ve cut off my friends for over a year now, but they weren’t really friends, just people I knew in all honesty. I never was able to develop a true friendship in high school due to my reoccurring depression and generalized anxiety. But now, I have no one and it’s mostly caused by my own actions due to deleting all social medias, avoiding social interaction at school and talking to no one. When you’ve given up on life a long time ago, you don’t care if you have friends, so I’ve been isolating myself until noone remembers me. Eventually, I will have the courage to kill myself and when I do, noone will remember if I was even here.
My sister committed suicide last night.
The pain is so heavy in my heart right now. This whole time I thought i was alone, when my sister was feeling the exact same way i am right now. She was only 27. She lives four hours away so we are going to her house now. It’s currently 4:11am in new zealand and all i want to do is cry. We have different dads and we don’t really look a like at all but she was always my number one supporter. She was always there for me and always babysat me when i was little. I have a scar on my pinky from the day she jammed my finger in the door lol. We have so many photos together. She always used to come over for christmas and for my birthdays. I can’t even type right now i’m in so much pain. I still can’t and don’t want to believe this. Someone I knew so well gone just like that.
They'll let you be homeless but tell you suicide is "never the answer"..
Honestly, this is one of the most puzzling things about society. People tell you that "we don't live in a vaccum. everyone has people who care" along with other shamings of suicide calling you "cowardly".But when you want to live...oh no. You're entitled to nothing. If you don't do well in school your parents kick you out and you end up homeless liviing on a cardboard box. But remember, don't kill yourself because "people care about you so much"I understand having to work to participate in society but I find it so stupid that people can't see the incongruity. I can't honestly imagine telling a homeless person freezing in the cold "keep struggling because life is worth it". If they want to die, then let them die and vice versa.
Reminder: NO ACTIVISM is allowed here at any time.
We know that September 10 was World Suicide Prevention Day.  And, we're all for activism.   But not here, please and thank you.  It takes focus away from our OPs in need of support and understanding.  
Suicidal people don’t want to die, they just want the pain to stop.
I hate this quote. I want to die. No one can tell me about my own feelings because I live through my own personal hell every single day. Edit. I’d meant that I hate this quote. I am not saying this to any of you all. I am not invalidating your experience or telling you you feel a certain way.
Parents who are “there for you” until your mental illness becomes slightly intolerable for them.
Sorry my depression isn’t just crying every other day. Sorry that it’s also me isolating myself and keeping conversations short, because I want to kill myself. Sorry I don’t want to be around you guys and be blamed for every small inconvenience or mishap. Sorry that MY depression inconveniences YOU so much and that ME WANTING TO KILL MYSELF makes your plans for the day “ruined”!
I hate how your brain teases you with random moments of motivation/hope/joy/etc. then plunges you back into feeling like subhuman trash for days or weeks on end
I feel like I have nothing worth living for, my music sucks ass, which is the only thing I care about. I'm very grateful my parents care about me but I feel like this isn't getting better no matter how much I've tried. My therapist appointment is so far away even though its only thursday. I've tried holding on, but for some reason it just gets worse.edit: dumbass spelling error
Do you ever have a really good dream but then wake up back to reality and tasting that fleeting moment of happiness makes you just want to fucking die so much?

People try to talk you out of suicide instead of talking you into life
That's the pattern every time. Someone will try and explain why I shouldn't just kill myself but they never give me any good reasons why living is preferable to me dying.Death is a perament solution to a temporary problem? No other solution is permanent, anything could go wrong at any time, suicide is a permanent solution to all my problems and is therefore the best one I have.
We need some support over at r/Teenagers.
Today, that sub has seen an unnatural spike in suicide notes, and one of them seems to have actually gone through with it. None of us over there have any way of confidently trying to talk these people out of their actions, so I would greatly appreciate it if some of you kept an eye out for any more suicidal teens that appear and help us in our endeavor to prevent any more deaths.
The reason I love my bed and sleeping so much is because it’s the closest to death I can get for now, it’s like a free trial

A letter to a friend who'll never read it.
I saw you today. Things were good, better than good. You were smiling that idiotic smile that I love. Wearing that old and faded track pants that I begged you to throw away but you never did. Then you saw me. Your face lit up. You came towards me, held my hands and said the silliest, stupidest joke that I ever heard. You know I don't like jokes but you still make me laugh. How do you do that??We were together after such a long time. Me nagging you, you making me laugh, falling in love all over again. It was just like old times. I saw you today. But then I woke up.I wanted to hold on to you, to be with you and never let you go again, to go back into the dream where you were. But I couldn't. The harder I tried the farther you felt. Realization hit; I'd never see you again, I'd never talk to you, nag you, hold you, be held by you, give you the cherry on top of my ice-creams because I still don't like them. I hate you.I hate you. I hate you. I hate you.I hate you because you never loved me enough. I hate you because you never trusted me enough. And I hate you because you were in pain and you never bothered to share it with me.Everytime I needed you, you were there. You never complained about the time. You let me cry, shout, rage when I was in pain. You helped me so much. But you never told that you were in pain. Why?? Why didn't you??Did you not think that I'd do everything to comfort you. I may not have been able to take away your pain, but I would've held your hand through it. I hate you. and I'll always hate you. Because I love you. and I'll always love you. No one can take your place. You were entirely special. All that sickening positivity and patience. Was it all a lie then? A mask? A cover-up for your feelings?I'm sorry I failed you. I should've looked deeper. Should've been a better friend. May be if I didn't rely on you so much, you would've been comfortable to rely on me. Is that why you couldn't even say goodbye?I hate you and I'll always will. And someday I'm going to die as well. It may be now or eighty years from now or anytime in between. I'm going to die and then I'm going to find you in the afterlife. And I'd hit you and kick you and scratch you and strangle you and God knows what else. But I'll never let you go then. I'll always, always be with you. Till then, I'll hold you in my heart and dreams and memories.I'll always love you, you perv.
My Mom showed off my suicide letter like it was a fashion statement
So basically i tried to do it a couple of months ago, had everything prepared, was ready to just end it all. Until all of a sudden i got way too scared and decided to call it offMy mom saw the letter that i was supposed to leave and went behind my back showed it off to her friends and some family members then talked to me about it,I became  some sort of beacon of attention which i hated people telling me that "it'll get better" or saying if it was true Sometimes i kinda wished i wasnt such a pussy and ended it right then and there, couldve saved myself from embarrasment
Does anyone else just feel like disappearing socially? Nuking social media, cutting ties to your family & friends, etc?
I am so beyond tired of waking up day in and day out to these negative and intrusive feelings and thoughts being played on repeat in my head. It's to the point where I've been giving more and more thought to just "disappearing" from people's lives. Not even saying goodbye -- just disappearing. Obliterating every real connection that I have so I can slip further and further into solitude. Maybe I just want to make it easier for when I finally decide to off myself. I don't know. What I do know is that everything feels so... pointless. I can't stop feeling numb and empty. I just want to sever all my ties and connections so I can be alone. So I can self-destruct alone.I can't even remember a time where I felt OK. I don't think I'll ever feel OK again. And it's not ok to feel this way. No one should ever, ever have to feel this way. Ever. But yet, some of us do. And it fucking sucks. I wish I could just absorb all the bad feelings everyone in the world has and just take them with me to the grave.
FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK

My friend has killed himself
There was a guy I met in this sub, a really good guy. I followed many of his posts, and didn't speak to him, till I saw his last post in which he described how he felt and announced how he is gonna take his own life. It's really disheartening how our own mind plays tricks with us to the point where we will lose all our hope, dreams and joy in life. How it puts us in a loop where everything seems dull and empty.This guy was a legend. He tried his best, but still unable to find strenght to carry on. I believe this is the worst way to go. I wish I said something more, I wish i knew better. Now there is nothing anyone can do. He left thinking worst of himself, feeling worthless after many years of struggle. Please dont mind if its written poorly, I had to get this off my chest.Thanks
"Suicide is a permanent solution to a temporary problem." .... Yeah that sounds fucking amazing.
Who doesn't want a "permanent solution"? I don't want teen temporary solution, I want everything to stop.Ugh. I hate this so much. Wish there was a reset button to life. I wish I could be okay.
I’m absolutely annoyed whenever I comment something suicidal and random people just tell me “call the national suicide prevention hotline” , I actually want people that I can relate my problems with, I don’t want a fucking hotline that doesn’t do shit.

Ive attempted suicide and my goodbye letter was shown to everyone
Hey.. so just like it says in the title, ive attempted suicide but failed obviously.Well i was in a coma for a few days and i wrote a letter for my little sister to explain to her why i did what i did.Little did i know, that letter would be read by everyone! And i mean everyone. I woke up and a therapist was beside me and the first thing she said was that she read my letter. I was so shocked and couldnt say anything for 3 seconds or more. Apparently she thought i didnt believed her so she just quoted the most disturbing and private part of it to me. My mother and all the people in the hospital read it too. I had to get into a clinic for one month and no surprise they all knew what i wrote in it.. i felt so shitty because these was personal stuff i didnt want to share with other people!!!
I wish there was a reset button for life
I really need one
Do you ever feel like suicide is your destiny?
I mean, for me at least, it's like there's no way around it. Things get better, my life improves in ways that I didn't think possible, but at the back of my mind I still have offing myself as an option.  It's always like: "Let's see where this goes. If it all goes to shit, I can still end my life".Since the moment that I first contemplated suicide, it seems inevitable. Like I'm just waiting for a bad turn.
I’m sorry, but I’m going to do it. My cat must know, he is on my lap. At midnight I will do it. Please help me. Any body. I’m honestly done. I don’t care if I’m 13. I just want it to end
I haven’t told anybody how I’m feeling because I don’t want to go to the mental hospital. The mental hospital is hell. If it wasn’t there I would be talking to my parents. I would be getting help. But I can’t, I know the consequences. The hospital punishes me. I would use a hotline but I don’t want police coming to my house. I’m scared. I’m the most scared I’ve been in my life. I know nobody will read this, but here I want to tell my story. The truth is, I want to live. I just want the pain to stop. I’m a 13 year old girl. I’ve been hospitalized 4 times. I’ve been suffering a lot. I have no self-confidence. I have no love for myself. I sew. I sew dolls. I love my dolls. Nobody will understand. Here is my first goodbye.  To my dolls: I love you. I know when I leave you will go to. I’m sorry. My heart breaks. I wish I could’ve taken care of you better. You saved my life 2 times. You helped me when I needed it the most. I will say all your names. I love all of you. I’m in tears. I don’t want to leave you. I don’t want to go. Kazumi, Sayaka, Kyoko, Mami, Madoka, Luka, Rin, Homura, Yachiyo, Iroha, Sana, Felicia, Tsuruno, Nikki, Ren, Rena, Mitama, Alina, Kanade, Sakura, Rika, Gumi, Emma, Ruby, Weiss, Blake, Yang, Yowane, Nagisa. I’m so sorry. I love you. All of youTo Miku: I love you. Your not even a doll to me. You are my best friend. My very best friend. You where there when no other human friend loved me. You where there when I cried out for help. You are here now sleeping not knowing anything. I can’t even apologize. It won’t mean anything. I hope in another world we could meet again. I love you.I draw. Everyday. But nobody likes my drawings.  Here is my second goodbye: to my materials. I wish I could’ve used you more. I wish I could’ve made something worth while out of you. But I couldn’t. Maybe someone else can. I’m sorry.I used to sing. I lost confidence in doing so. Here is my third goodbye: to my unwritten words. I’m sorry I couldn’t sing you to the world. I’m so sorry.My fourth: To mommy and daddy and my brother. I love you. I wish I could’ve made you happier. I wish I could’ve made you proud.And finally Binxy. My cat. You are with me now, in my last hours. I can’t even say anything. You won’t understand. My heart is dust now, because I’m being selfish. You are 14.  I don’t want to make you last years sad. I know you love me. You will miss me. I can’t even say anything. You seem to know. You have your head down. I know I’m being selfish. But please know, I love you. I love you so much Binxy. I don’t know what to do. I want help. But I can’t with out going to the hospital. I’m sorry. Please forgive me. Hold my hand. Give me a hug. Anything. With one final cry, please. I don’t want to go. But I can’t stay. I’m sorry. I’m sorry.  I’m sorry.
Does anyone see weddings and instantly think: "That's never gonna happen for me"

Do you feel like a useless NPC ?
Like a joke character , no one interacts with and always alone no one gives a fuck about him .
I told my parents I’m going to kill myself and they just wished me the best
As I was walking out of the door my mum said she hopes that’ll now make me happy. Nobody tried to stop me or check if I would be okay.I’ve told them I feel suicidal about 3 times before, and they’ve pretty much brushed it off like it’s just attention seeking.Now idk about you but I think that’s pretty fcuked up. Of course your child is seeking attention they want to fcuking die because they cannot take life anymore. I’m just so sick of everything. I feel like I have no one I can turn to. My ex left me, I have no real friends and now my family have turned their back on me.I just can’t take this anymore.
I get so angry when I hear about people who die in their sleep because it’s not fair and it should be me.

Anybody else wishing that they could run away instead of killing themselves?
I wish I had some money saved away and a car, I wish I could drive away and never come back to my life. I always wish for a simple life, I always dream i’m driving to Uruguay and that i’m changing my name to Hermano or whatever the fuck, I’d teach kids to swim and spend my days getting stoned by myself. I’d volunteer at a soup kitchen and write my books at night.But that never happens, i’m completely by myself and in a relationship where i’m most likely being used. Nobody gives a fuck about me. I just want to be better.
Just please read it would mean a lot to me. I’m so alone.
2016It’s close to midnight. It’s dark and cold. My door is closed. As I lay about to fall asleep I hear something. I’m half awake half asleep so I don’t really acknowledge it. I turn on my right side and try to fall asleep again. But then I hear something. I open my eyes too scared to turn back over to see what it is. It sounded like someone was crawling beside my bed. Here I lay, trying to figure out what it is. Then I hear a very loud “hey!” Yelled right in my ear. I instantly sit up and look around my room but of course I see nothing. I must just be paranoid. ~••••••~2005It was a few months after my mom married him. I never really liked him. When he did what he did, I was too young to understand what it meant. He’d put me on his lap, grab my sides and butt when my mother was working. He called me his “favorite”. It was just touching then. How I wish it never had to be more. ~••••••~2007We had just got back from a family party the first time it happened. It was really late at night and my mother went to sleep as soon as we got home I remember being half awake as she told him to carry me to bed as I was already sleeping from the car ride home. Their room was upstairs mine was in the basement. As he put me to bed he started touching me. By then I was awake. He was on top of me and told me to be quiet as he held his hand over my mouth. I remember crying and looking out my bedroom window counting in my head thinking of when it was going to be over. I was in so much pain. When he was done, he told me again how I was his favorite. I couldn’t do anything but cry. The next morning my mom was already gone at work and there I was, stuck in a house with a monster. ~••••••~2013It was going on for a few years now. Yes, I did want and try to tell my mom about it, but I was so scared she wouldn’t love me anymore and would blame me for it happening so I never did, because he said if I told, she wouldn’t want me anymore. In school my grades dropped, my attendance dropped, and I’d never pay attention. I felt so alone and so scared. Yes, I did self harm as I felt that the pain of that would not hurt as much as the pain from him. I did run away, and when my councilor found out, I talked to her, I told her an excuse saying I didn’t wanna go home because I hated when he yelled, I couldn’t tell her the real reason was because of what he did to me almost every night. I couldn’t tell her as much as I wanted to. I felt so isolated. She called him and he had picked me up from school, when we got home he immediately did what he did to me almost every night and said I deserved it for being bad. My mom was always out working as she worked two jobs and would really only be home 7am-12pm. ~•••••~2015 A few years later and it was still happening. I was sick every morning and when I told my friends about it they joked around saying I was pregnant. I laughed along but in my head I thought, “could I really be?”. I remember stealing a pregnancy test from a pharmacy and took it as soon as I got home. It was positive. I felt sick, then and there I wanted to throw up, no not from being pregnant but from being pregnant from him, my step father. I just wanted to die. I remember a few days going by as my mom cleaned my room she found the test. She yelled at me for not being careful and was yelling at me for becoming pregnant at such a young age. Little did she know, the father was the man she married, the man that has been sexually abusing me for years, my step father. I miscarried at 10 weeks, as bad as it may sound, I was glad I did. ~••••••~2016My mom had finally divorced the piece of shit after she found out he was cheating and I had so much relief after that. I thought finally no more pain. Later that year, I was constantly getting in trouble, doing drugs, trying to be cool hanging with the “bad kids”. I was expelled mid freshman year. I started going to an alternative school for kids who got expelled from high schools. There I met a friend I’ve known since kindergarten. We started hanging out everyday after school. I thought to myself that wow someone is actually being nice to me. There was this Friday where I was hanging out with a different friend when I ran into him and his friends. We decided to all hang out and we went in an ally way to drink and he had given me some pills saying it would get me “high”. Being the uncaring trying to fit in cool kid I took them and drank. My friend I was with had left with some dude that he was hanging with. So it was just me him and his other friend. We decided to go chill in a stairwell. I was so gone off whatever I had taken and from all the drinking I did. I remember him asking to have sex and I said no. I passed out and next thing I knew he was on top of me as his friend watched. I quickly pushed him off put my pants back on and as I ran down the stairway crying I seen him and his friend high five. I called my sister for a ride home but didn’t tell her what happen. When I got home I started crying to my mom but all she did was yell at me for coming home late and didn’t even ask me why I was crying. I went in my room wondering how could he do that to me? Someone I knew since elementary school. How could this happen. As I laid in bed, I thought to myself that I was nothing. I was already being sexually abused from my step dad for years and now it happens again at age 16 from someone I called a friend. By then, all I wanted to do was die. I thought after that monster was out of my life I’d be a little okay, yet it happened again from someone I knew and considered a friend. ~••••••~2018I am 18 and I try to drink every weekend I can with older friends. Because I didn’t want to be sober on weekends when I was by myself I didn’t want to be alone with my thoughts. Because on weekdays I’d be occupied by work. So weekends I’d just drink every chance I could. It was not good. Everywhere I went to drink, there was always one dude touching me and pushing his self on me. I thought to myself wow I really can’t get away from this stuff. All my life I’ve endured so much pain from people I thought were supposed to protect me. Sure I drank and maybe you think it’s my fault for putting myself in such a situation like this. I couldn’t get away from it. I thought to myself the best way out of this hell of a loop is taking myself out. I’ve attempted suicide 3 times the past year. Soon it will be my time to go, because all I feel is pain and loneliness. I’m so scarred and paranoid from the things my step father did that every night I have to sleep with ear plugs in and a blanket over my face because I’m scared that he will be standing next to me even though I know he’s gone. Not the place to post, but at the time, I just needed it out of my mind. And yes, cops were eventually involved for everyone asking. 
"it gets better" is just bullshit that people say to make you feel better when they don't know what to say.
It doesn't get better. When it gets better, it gets even worse afterwards. Nothing good lasts forever. The bad wouldn't be bad without the good and vice versa. But the bad is just so, so fucking bad. I'm driven one step closer to suicide each time it gets bad, and my expectations on how bad it can get are subverted every time.
Just graduated from college today, planning on taking my life tonight.
Like the title says, today I received my bachelors in medical lab science and have every intention of taking my life tonight. I am not sure why I am making this post, maybe its a cry for help or just a way to make me feel like at least one person knows why I took my life on a day I was supposed to be happy.Here's my story for anyone who cares to hear it. I grew up in a household with a very verbally and occasionally physically abusive father and a mother who could do very little to stop what was happening considering she was just as much a victim as I was. I also have a younger brother who my father favors and can do no wrong. Growing up, I would get yelled at for the smallest things and had to be careful whenever I did anything whilst my brother was apparently special and needed his space so he could do whatever he wanted. He didn't have anything wrong with him, like a mental/physical disability, he just was allowed to live how he wanted while I took the blame. He ended up dropping out of school first year of high school and working with my father in construction while I went on to college.Where I live, the minimum wage is far below what is the minimum you need to live. This meant that even working a job while going to college, I had no choice but to live at home. My family problems became less of an impact when I simply locked myself in my room the moment I got home. It was normal for me to never speak to or even look one of my family members in the eye for weeks to months at a time. That being said, it comes to no surprise that nobody in my family attended graduation. They probably didn't even realize I had graduated at all.Life at school wasn't any better for me. I was overweight and not exactly the most attractive person so I was more or less left alone save for a few bullies here and there. I never really had any real life friends and it became customary for me to find a quiet spot away from everyone and eat alone during lunch and attend my classes quietly. Even if I wanted to talk to others, I found that incredibly difficult because of severe social anxiety. So I just went class to class, graduated high school, did the same in college. Never having friends never really bothered me probably because I don't know what having a real life friend is even like in the first place.The only part of my life I would have considered to be somewhat decent or even normal would have been when I logged into WoW. I was about 13 or 14 when I first started playing and that was the only time I ever found a place I felt like I belonged. I eventually got used to getting know know people through them talking to each other over ventrilo (I very rarely spoke and never on coms) and I felt like I belonged even if i was just some quiet kid on the side. Eventually what I would consider to be the highlight of my life going forward would have been when I became very close with someone I met in my current guild. We were both 15 and became very close and eventually became a couple. We were together for 7 years and helped each other finish high school and get into college. Because of circumstances, we never ended up meeting in real life over those 7 years, mostly due to her mother being extremely over protective. Despite that we spoke and played many video games together over those years. Neither of us had real life friends, but that never mattered because it was us against the world.It was 2017 when she left me without a word or reason. She had been depressed (not eating, staying home from class, ect.) for about 3 or 4 months prior and I did everything I could to try to lighten her day best I could but it seems that nothing worked. This was all very stressful for me and I am sure I might have said somethings out of frustration from time to time, but all I ever did was try to help. I was trying to plan a trip to visit her, but that wasn't easy considering we lived of opposite sides of the US. Before I was able to finish planning out the trip she suddenly blocked me on everything and I never heard from her ever again.The following two years were a living hell for me. I had been accepted into the medical laboratory science program at my college just one month prior to her disappearing. The whole reason I pursued that degree and career was so that I could easily find a fairly high paying job anywhere in the country because of the high demand for medical lab techs. The plan was to graduate and find a job immediately in her state and move there to be with her. However she was gone now, I was still accepted to the program, and had nothing else in my life so I just kept going with the program. Flash forward to today, I've now graduated and even have a job in my field already (note new hire wage doesn't even pay enough to live on your own in this state) but I feel completely empty. The whole speech about how we will go forward into our careers didn't even feel directed towards me, and all the congratulations felt wasted on me.I know I planned my entire life around someone who I've never met in person and I am fully aware how stupid that is. Honestly I expected things to work out better considering we had been happy together for a 3rd of my life up to that point, but regardless of that I know how dumb I am. My entire life has been a joke and even the biggest accomplishment of most peoples lives today, for me, was just a joke set up by another joke.This is why I have every intention of ending my life tonight. I have no family that will care enough if I am gone, no friends that will miss me, i'm sure my boss won't be happy that I am gone but I was only still a trainee anyways so losing me won't affect anyone's schedules, and my position will be filled by my classmate who deserves the job more than I do anyways.Sorry for this being so long (23 years is hard to condense but I did my best), maybe didn't make any sense at times, and I am not sure this is even the right place to post considering I've never posted on reddit before so if it gets removed that's okay. Maybe at least one stranger will read this and know why I died since I don't plan to leave a suicide or anything of the like so I guess this will be it. Thank you to whoever reads this for taking the time to learn about me and maybe even care that I died.Edit: Thank you everyone for your kindness, it really does mean a lot to me. I struggle a lot when it comes to talking to people and I find it hard to reply to comments but just know that I am reading them and can't thank all of you who have shared your stories enough. I'm going to keep fighting today and try to get through today best I can.
Now I get why there are more suicides in this time of the year.

Do y’all’s ever want to kill yourself over a minor inconvenience and that makes you want to kill yourself even more cause other people have it way worse?
Like, I’m reading posts on this sub where people’s siblings/loved ones have killed themselves and they want to follow, that one guy was a pedophile, people are extremely lonely/ugly/poor/abused, and it’s just an overall Shit show.I dropped like 5 dishes at work today and that was enough to almost make me go over the edge. There are literally slaves that have known nothing but agony their entire lives in this world and I’m just your average clumsy 18 year old who, in the grand scheme of things, has nothing to be worried about. Fuck.
Anyone ever lie in bed at night and think to yourself, “I could end it all right now with this (knife, gun, pills, etc)?”
I’ve come quite close to trying it, but I don’t have the courage to do so.
No one gives a shit until you admit you want to die
Nobody gives a fuck how much pain you're in or how much you're suffering until you admit that you want to die. If you didn't give a fuck before don't pretend to now. Instead of locking me up like some kind of rabid animal just give me some sodium pentobarbital so I can fucking die.
Sleeping is so peaceful, I hate waking up.
When I am sleeping, nothing around me exists. No duties, no burdens, no depression nothing. I can just live. Even dreamless sleeps, where there is nothing but darkness feels so comfortable. I can just close my eyes and leave this world for some moments. I am so tired. So tired of everything. They always say "there's light at the end of the tunnel" but I've been running and running with no end in sight. No relief in sight. I'm just endlessly running while wearing a mask of a sane man.
Do you guys ever feel so horribly alone even when you're around close friends or family?
I feel like nobody gets it, life feels so fake and plasticy. How does everybody do this day in day out?? It's been one tragedy after another for my whole life, out of 18 years only 6 months felt real and happy. I cling to that time in memory hoping I get to relive it. I took such advantage of it.The only enjoyment I get out of life is talking to my crush and my dad. I want to see them happy. They're the only important things to me.Is making others happy really all I exist for? I want to die so badly but it would hurt them. I hate it I wish they hated me so I could have an excuse. Thanks for reading my idiotic rambling. <3 you guys too.
I made a post on this subreddit asking for someone to give me some hope and somebody downvoted it. Fuck this.
Guess it's a sign.Edit: Thank you all so much for the overwhelming support. it means more to me than you might think.
Will I EVER commit suicide? Probably not. Do I think about doing it? Every. Single. Day.
I don't know if I could ever bring myself to do it. There has been attempts before in the past, but never too serious to the point where I needed to be hospitalized. Once saw a post that said, "Can I have a 30 day free trial of being dead?" Never related to something so much in my damn life. Let me be an accident, not to the point where I die, but maybe in a coma for a while. Just to escape. I'm the friend that no ones wants to hang out with. I don't have anybody. I made a bad reputation for myself in high school and college (mainly just rumor-based) and I never bounced back from it because of my anxiety. I don't know who I am. I don't know what love is. Being suicidal is the only feeling I truly and wholeheartedly know, which is both comforting and petrifying at the same time. Lord forgive me, I'm going to need it. 
Reminder: Absolutely no activism of any kind is allowed here. Any day.
If you want to recognise an occasion, please do so by offering extra support to those who've asked for it, and by being a good citizen of the community, mindful of our tips and guidelines.Edit:  In response to multiple requests, I'm adding a definition of activism here:  "campaigning to bring about political or social change".  That's straight out of the OED, we aren't making any special interpretation of it.  But since people seem to have difficulty knowing what we mean, any post that is primarily about raising awareness or changing perceptions is activism according to the dictionary definition and thus a violation of the community rules.
i just took all the remaining pills of my 5 prescriptions. goodbye.
title says most of it. a month ago i tried to jump off the golden gate bridge and got detained and 5250ed. things haven’t gotten better and i’m just done. this life isn’t for me. it’s my time to go. i’m really sorry to all the people who love me. i feel bad but i cant stick around anymore. i hope things get better for anybody reading this. goodbyeupdate: i survived, i’m in the ICU right now, they said i would’ve died if i didn’t come in. thank you everyone for your kind messages and caring, i’ll try to reply to everyone but it’ll take some time considering :( thank you all 
My name is Tyler, that’s my real name this is my only account, I’m highly suicidal, have been since I was about 6-7 years old, I’m 26 now and it’s different now. I’m going to tell you my story in a new attempt to gain enough relief to fall asleep tonight. Thanks for reading if you do <3
Growing up, I was always a really weird kid. I distinctly remember that I had just seen the world differently. It seemed that my imagination had a bigger play in my life than most. Me and a friend in kind garden would squeeze batteries in our hands and pretend that we were Mario or Pokémon because neither of our families could/would buy us a game console but we were exposed to them by relatives and tv. It was so simple back then and looking back so pure,  but it felt like we were there. We didn’t have what other kids had to have fun so we became those things. As far as I know I was a decent enough kid however when my brother came along around age 4, we would fight, I would hurt him, not bad (typically young brother bs) but still enough to get beaten from my father when he got off work. My father more so was (he is still with us) a rigid, traditionally Hispanic in parenting, angry, regretful person. When he was in the house there was always a strange energy of danger even if nothing was going on. It was better to just stay quiet. This didn’t really work because my younger brother soon learned that it was an easy win when we’d bicker to just cry out loud, our dad would come in, beat my ass and I would curse my brothers name for doing so but alas it would get me to stop. My real last memory of child abuse before my teens is about 15 seconds of my dad putting me in a corner on the ground, telling me if I wanted to fight to put my hands up and when I did to just shield myself he pummeled me with closed fists. I was around 10 years old, maybe give or take a couple years, not sure, I have terrible memory of most my life. As I got older, my brother and I actually started bonding, he liked the way I started standing up to our dad no matter how bad I was beat down. He’s told me i inspired him. My mom btw is/was awesome, but didn’t really do much except yell to stop from the sidelines or leave the room since she couldn’t bear to watch. I can’t blame her, not much negativity felt towards her for I know she unconditionally loves me and that must’ve been a tough and traumatic experience for her as well. Moving forward, I’m a decent student, normally averaging around low A’s my brothers straight A’s if not 100’s, not much of a big deal there, my mom started adding incentives once we grew into our early teens (for every A we got in a semester she’d give us like 10 dollars or something, it was dope so we did well). Through out life I feel like I found connections that I would replace for my fathers love, through friendship. I grew very close and desperately wanted to fit in with my friends. I would spend hours out of the house riding bikes around the neighborhood doing dumb lil kid shit, but it was a really freeing time out I remember. Fast forward, around when I was 14, my brother 11 my mom bought me a bass guitar because I had been getting into random enough Japanese rock from the anime I would watch and to me the bassist was always the most bad ass and going crazy member, my brother came along and she bought him a guitar spur of the moment, figured it would help us bond. It did. It really did and I thank everything in this world for those times that followed because they were hands down the best years of my life. I was a shitty bassist and soon transitioned over to wanting to be a singer and my brother excelled at guitar, going onto be called a prodigy by everyone from teachers, producers and most of the respected music industry people we would eventually encounter. But at the time he was my little brother and being a fresh teen thought it would be wack to have my 11 year old brother in the band. I started a couple bands, the second one introducing my brother in as lead guitar. This was a turning point.Back to family life, my dad started to realize he was aging and I was starting to gain my testosterone fueled teenage body, this didn’t stop anything, but only extended our fights into actual fights. My dad, a correction officer, doing manual labor his whole life handed my ass to me every time. All while telling me to kill myself and how no one loved me and I was a mistake. Nothing like this was said to my brother, unless in terms of how I’ve manipulated him into becoming just like me. I became a bit of a shitty protector of the house hold, two accounts stick out immeasurably to me. The first being (funny kind of a call back to how my brother would yell for my dad to come) my brother was upstairs and screamed Tyler help dad just hit me. In a blind fury, i bum rushed my dad onto the floor, commanded my brother to hold his arms down and pummeled him in his face, chest, balls, anywhere i could hit before he brother free all while yelling the likes of “it used to just be me, that’s where you should’ve left it”. It was a powerful moment. My father spent the rest of the week walking downstairs like a caged tiger screaming and laughing about how he was going to kill me. ‘‘Twas still a sweet victory. No fear.I’ll speed up the rest: me and my bro made a band, everyone betrayed us, we made another and took full control of who was in it, wrote all the music, what we looked like, who we recorded with, and what not. With his help i created a two year plan to get signed to a label called Fearless Records. We played metal. It was therapeutic and empowering stuff to play after everything you’ve read thus far. We did it in four months.I got a text by our newly acquired manager that we had been offered a deal by the label of our dreams. I cried and got sent home early. A record that I wrote all the lyrics to and my brother wrote all the music to, all fueled by the hate and distinction of our father son dissonance. It was the biggest victory a small town probably has seen, at least our small town. Every time he said we were garbage, we should try something else, i couldn’t sing and my brother should play something nice. Every time he laid a hand on us, put into songs and we did it in four months! Still makes me proud to this day man. Btw, this isn’t a story about my father.He is not the reason I want to kill myself anymore.The label fucked us over, made us record 3 different records each time hating something that they previously wanted and we called it quits. Our deal was good n no need to recoup anything, just disband.This is where whatever is inside me to this day was brought into this life. A foe I don’t know if I can beat this time. Throughout the story so far, I had a flame inside of me. The whole time a purpose to prove. A will to fight. I always told people that I wasn’t sad, I was angry. And the anger forged who I was. A determined, skill ful musician, with the mane of a lion and the attitude to match, a man who did it. But when that all went away. I became a worm, but not yet.Shit with my dad cooled off, he retired. I’m assuming his job really was the culprit of the aggression and I stopped holding the past against him. At this point I had been a dumbass at points too and figured it was not worth the energy or the negativity of keeping that cloud around. Was he still an incredibly ill informed, ego centric prick? Yeah, but I was a different person now and couldn’t be bothered with it. Most times shrugging off his comments. I had worth now.Me and my bro made another band with just our drummer from the previously signed act, but it didn’t last long, we did an all over the place EP that was uninspiring yet everyone we showed loved it. Drummer left, became a solo artist, he’s a whole other story. I can’t help but feel as tho I’m responsible for his and my brothers mental state as I’m 3-4 years older than both of them (i was always the dad figure to them).Fuck it tho, rock n roll, we did it once we’ll do it again. Me and my brother move to Los Angeles California in hopes of creating a new sound within the fusion realm of rap, emo, metal, and pop genres. We moved with two of my friends from NY and got a shitty two bedroom apartment and split the rooms. The other two room mates were supposedly friends for years yet fought constantly, shit talked each other and created this crazy negative space in this 1000 sqft. It was not comfortable to say the least. However the one room mate in specific, targeted my brother, who at this point basically didn’t talk to either of them. (This is point one and point 2 is my confesssion) And then there was me, i had developed an alcohol problem, not that i drank every day or even every weekend. But when i did, i became a different person, i would usuallly drink myself to sleep as well. My brother picked me up from a bar one night and while on his way i began to get robbed. I refused it and tried to buy time and ended up running to his car when he got there. Amped on on about 10 jack n cokes and the adrenaline of potentially dying, i flipped shit on my brother. Cursing him out, saying i didn’t need him, i could pay someone 20 dollars to do what he does, etc. it was awful. And it was the last straw for him. Within the next week or so he packed up, quit his job and went back home. I was heartbroken, but covered it up with anger. My other two room mates, if you can believe it, convinced me that i didn’t need him and that he held me back. I thought I’d be okay and he’d come back, i left our room exactly how he left it for months. He didn’t. This was the final nail in the coffin for my mental state to date. I spend every night analyzing the past, and i think I’ve learned that at first i created a whole identity to hating my father, then after that i created a whole identity around me and my brothers music career and once he was gone and to this second of typing it, I’m lost. I don’t know what to do. My personality feels like it’s splitting. Some days I’m this really cool extroverted ladies man guy and some days I’m a worm in my bed spending money he doesn’t have on post mates so he doesn’t have to leave the apartment. When i sit down and try to write music, i can, but i don’t feel it anymore. It’s the only skill i have. I didn’t go to a real college because of the deal, I’m not good at anything and I’m not interested in anything other than music. But there’s no inspiration left in me. Nothing really makes me happy anymore. I had a gf, nothing, broke up with her, nothing i have a new one, i miss her sometimes but for the most part nothing, i have written 6 new songs, nothing, i post a photo on Instagram, nothing, i go to work, nothing, i watch a movie, nothing. Everything just seems so pointless now, i don’t see myself as the star i once did. I don’t even believe myself when i sing, or have conversation with people. It’s like I’m watching the most boring movie about someone that i just don’t even care about. I just want him to die. I just want to stop wondering and working and fighting, i don’t want to do it anymore, and i was the relief of death. Idk what i expect from this but it was slightly therapeutic, thanks for listening.
Attempt failed. Currently in the hospital.
I tried I really did, but the second I took the pills I instantly regretted it. I called 911. In the ambulance is when I really noticed what I had done. And having the paramedics there to calm me down and help me was everything to me. I'm currently in the hospital. I can't leave my room unless it's to go to the bathroom. I can't even close my curtain to get privacy. They took every single cable and metal object out of the room. I'm in terrible pain. I didn't sleep at all last night. Hospital beds are the worse. I miss my bed and my dog :( Despite the dreary scene of the hospital the nurses and doctors have been nothing but nice and supportive. The nurse who drew my blood even drew a little smiley face on my bandaid to cheer me up a little. One nurse even gave me her number in case I ever need some support. I've never been treated so nicely by a group of strangers. Every single one of them giving me a different purpose to live. Thankfully I didn't ingest too much pills to damage my body too much. Just slight kinda damage but nothing life threatening. But this has made me realize a lot. Life really is worth living. No matter your situation. There are PLENTY of people who can be there for you. Every single nurse and doctor here gave me thousands of resources to help me. And this has given me the will to live. I should be getting out by Tuesday when a psychiatrist comes to mentally evaluate me and give me permission to leave. Until then I'm in a hospital room prison being watched over like a baby but it's good to know that there's people out there who truly care. To all the people considering suicide. Please don't do it. It's not worth it. I truly thought I had no one and my family wouldn't care. But seeing their crying faces when the ambulance took me away made me realize that even when you think you have no one you're wrong. The selfish decision I made will be in my mind forever but it gives me a reason to go on. We're all strong enough if we really try. Stay strong and reconsider your choice. EDIT: I didn't think my post would get so much attention, seeing as my other posts wouldn't get much. I'm sorry if I can't reply to all of the comments it's really a lot! However, thank you to all the kind people and positive messages. I'm glad to see my story is helping others as well. 
GUILT TRIPPING IS NOT OK
I've been told all my life "Don't kill yourself you will hurt everyone else" " It's selfish" "Think about the people who have no choice" I fucking know that!! You don't think I know that I'm going to make people sad and hurt? Do you even care what I might be going through? DON'T TELL PEOPLE THAT IT'S SELFISH. THEY HAVE BEEN TRYING SO HARD. THEY JUST WANT THE PAIN TO END. That's all I want. It hurts too much. Stop telling me what I already know. I don't want to hurt anyone but I can't keep doing this shit
UPDATE THANK YOU, EVERYONE,​ WHO PUSHED ME TO LIVE!!!!!!!
 THANK YOU EVERYONE WHO HELPED!!!!!!!! so after posting this 28 days ago I wrote my Best friend who's out of state a suicide note and I closed my phone and social media and popped some pills and right then there was a knock at my door and it was the cops they took me to a psychiatric ward were I spent a few days a little over a week it felt like a month but I swear I meet some amazing people and my family and friends visited every day and now I'm on my medication and things are turning around a lot!!!!!! I'm moving out to my Best friend and taking a semester off to recoup from school I explained to my friend about the 1k and she wasn't sweating it she said my life was more important but long story short everything worked out I love you strangers and thank you for helping me\^\_\^!xoxoxox
Anyone else surprised they survived through 2018?
I’m surprised. How the fuck did I do it? I think about suicide almost every day but I did it. 
I overdosed. Ended up calling 911 before it was late. I ended up pretty bad. I couldn’t move and wasn’t coherent for a day and half. Spent 6 days in the hospital. Getting outpatient help I guess we go from here. I have better hope now I think

I just want a hug
I know it won’t fix everything, but hugs are nice, they make me feel warm and protected.Just one hug would be nice, that’s all.
The only reason I haven't killed myself is because I'm scared of not knowing what death is.

Take A Second To Look Around..
Do it, just take a second to look through this sub and look at all the people struggling to find a reason to live. Some people are fighting their hardest against impossible odds, some people never had a chance, some are nihilistic and don't see any reason to live and some like me have hereditary depression. And who cares? Genuinely who cares? I've come on here just to rant and I'd bet any amount of money you who's reading this did the exact same. Everyone is self absorbed, the only people who care about you (if any) can't help. They have their own lives to live. They beg people with depression and who are suicidal to "talk" well who do we fucking talk to? I don't have the money for a fancy fucking therapist, I honestly don't just feel sorry for myself right now.. I feel sorry for mankind. Do you think in a tribe if someone is crying they walk past them and pretend they didn't see them? For whatever reason this 21st century, though being the safest and most peaceful time in all of history. Is also some on the most uncaring, sociopathic fucked up times in history. Well... maybe not. Maybe the world has always been fucked and we just have selective memory. No-one cares about you, no-one cares about me. I wish I could look out the window and see a fucking meteorite screeching towards Earth. I'm done, I really don't know how I am going to get through Christmas this year so I might as well leave a trail so my family don't blame themselves if I do something. I doubt I will, I'm a pussy and too scared. So I'll just sit in my misery, watch another year come and wonder how I will survive this new year coming.
I tried killing myself today.
I wanted to jump off the top of a church tower, about 80m up. The church was supposed to be open, but just when I got there, a man came out from the entrance and ushered me out the gates because the church was closing early today. Somewhat ironically the name of the church is "our Saviour's church".Talked with a close friend just now and I'm gonna seek professional help tomorrow. This time this shit has gone too far. Had I arrived even half an hour earlier, I wouldn't be here right now. Such a surreal feeling.
Do you ever go to sleep early wishing you never wake up?
I have been doing that every night for the past weeks, I try to sleep early thinking and wishing that will be the last time I will be awake.
Thanks reddit
Thanks to everyone who gave supportBecause of you I didnt kill myself
Failed suicide attempt
Yesterday I clean my house, packed my bag with robe and went into the woods. I arrived there at 10pm and smoked a few sigartes and listened to the animal noises. I prepared my rope and let myself drop. The first minute was peacefull but then I started having a panic attack and started seeing all blurry and my hearing went away. If I didn't have my pocket knife to cut the rope I was gone. But I was to much of a coward and cut it. Some people know like my father but they don't care. I really need a hug. I haven't heard or seen someone familiar in the past 2months. I really grave love, understanding, kidness, a hand, a shoulder. I am so lonely. I don't understand that people don't care what happened yesterday I don't. Am I this bad of a person? U don't think so I'm just mentally unstable. Anyone from Belgium whom wants to be my friend? I don't  want to be pathetic but I'm so lonely I miss love so much. I'm going to stop now I don't want to cry ;) thanks in advance for the people reading this.
nobody cares if youre suicidal until you actually commit suicide
I often fantasize about dying. I don't want to be here anymore. it's not even so much out of sadness anymore as it is just out of thinking realistically. there's literally no point. the only thing holding me back from doing it is I don't want to do that to my parents. besides feeling like I just want to be dead, I also deal with intense depression and thoughts that torment me. I can't shake the feeling that something is just wrong with me and I'm never going to be happy or deserve to be happy. there's this void in me and no matter what I do, nothing fills it. I tried talking to my ex about this while we were dating. I told him about my self harm and how I just want to die. about the self harm, he told me to cut the "right way" if I wanted real results. for the depression and suicidal thoughts, he said he felt the same except he had a worse life, so his depression was more justified. he said I have a lot to be happy for. it just made me want to kill myself even more. but the thing is, I don't think I want to die. I just wish everything would stop and I could start over as someone else. and honestly, when I think about killing myself, I fantasize about it not working, but working just enough to hospitalize me. it's a sick fucking thought, I know.I think the main reason I want to attempt suicide is so the people around me will realize that I'm not just faking it or "choosing" to be depressed. it's not just for attention... which is ironic to say, considering I want to do it literally to get their attention. but I just feel like, in order for my pain to be taken seriously, I need to show it to people somehow.
the only existence sadder than being suicidal is being suicidal but with the option of suicide taken away from you because if you were to kill yourself, you would kill someone else too
i dont think my mom would be able to survive me dying
Telling someone not to kill themselves seems as useful as telling a serial killer not to kill you. :D
Also, stop telling people "Think about your family". Think about what it's doing to me to continue being here. Think about how it is to feel trapped almost everywhere you go. Yeah, to suffer through that constantly? No.
Being born ugly sets you up to fail
They say looks don’t matter, but unfortunately that isn’t true. For some of us, the amount of grooming, styling and exercising we do just can’t fix bad genes. While adults may not judge someone on face value if they are unattractive, being made fun of as a kid leads to a chain of effectsGet made fun for appearance as a kid/teen...Don’t have anyone to hang with...Shattered confidence...Staying home on weekends and not talking much during school...Not developing social skills...Being socially inept as an adultMost of my quirks are in my bone structure so it would take some serious plastic surgery to address them. I’m so angry at myself for skipping on an opportunity to fix a very big flaw with my appearance 5 years ago because some yes-men convinced me I was okay. I’m not.
I hate that I can’t kill myself
I just want to disappear. I don’t want to die, I want to stop existing. Dying involves violently ending your life. And leaping into the void of death, not knowing what exactly will happen. I just want to stop existing and to be forgotten.I’m stuck and I hate it so much.
Does anyone else ever think to themselves “any day now I’m going to kill myself”
I just feel like I’m constantly on some sort of pin and needle. Just no way in hell I can survive anymore. Each day is the same boredom and misery. Prison. Let me out. I just don’t see where it’s worth it. I’m not super talented so the creative ability necessary to better myself isn’t there. Self destructive plagues always end up fucking me up
My dad recorded a video of me walking down the street
He showed it to me on his pc, showing my hands in my pockets, my head down, obviously looking quite dead-faced. Telling me he showed this to me to show what u look like to the rest of the world, an overweight loser who will never get anothet girlfriend stuck in his own thoughts. I feel so weird and dirty that. I was recorded the one time I wasn't putting on a front, pretending I had my shit together head held up high. Maybe it's his fucked up way of trying to motivate me to sort my shit out but it just makes me wish I could stop existing. I fucking hate myself more. My family obviously hates me, maybe if I go they will feel sad for a bit but then as time goes on they'll forget about me. I know a spot off the local trail, maybe tonight, I'm not yet sure  I want this pain in my head to go away. I'm sick of feeling stuck
For once, I just want to stop being the punchline of everyone's jokes.

I feel like an NPC in a world filled with players. i’m just created to commit suicide and i can’t change the settings to stop that.

