INTRODUCTION 

Love  is  so  important  to  our  well-being;  and  yet, 

contacting  that  which  is  within  us  that  is  naturally 

and  spontaneously  loving  is  often  difficult.  This 

book is intended to help you do that. It is made up 

of  essays  and  short  quotes  taken  from  my  other 

books, particularly Loving in the Moment, Living in the 

Now, Embracing the Now, Trusting Life, and Anatomy of 

Desire. To better understand what is presented here, 

it seems important to define some of the terms used, 

although those who are familiar with Eckhart Tolle’s 

writings will already be familiar with these terms. 

It  is  obvious  that  human  beings  have  a  dual 

nature, that is, they have the potential for both good 

acts  and  harmful  acts.  We  can  be 

loving, 

compassionate,  and  altruistic  or  the  opposite.  Most 

of  us  would  like  to  be  more  loving  because  it  feels 

good to be loving and because it is actually our true 

nature  to  be  loving.  But  something  exists  within  us 

 

 

 

 

 

that  makes  it  difficult  to  be  loving  consistently,  and 

that something is the ego.  

The ego is the false self (as opposed to the true 

self, or Essence, as I like to call it). The ego is made up 

of 

conditioning—beliefs,  opinions, 

judgments, 

“shoulds,” and any number of ideas that are part of 

our  programming  and  psychological  makeup.  This 

conditioning  affects  how  we  see  and  react  to  the 

world,  and  we  often  respond  unconsciously  to  this 

conditioning without realizing that we have a choice. 

Although some of our conditioning is necessary and 

useful,  much  of  it  is  false,  negative,  and  limiting. 

This is the conditioning that causes us suffering and 

results in our causing suffering to others. These false, 

negative,  and  limiting  beliefs  and  perspectives  are 

what interfere most with loving. 

The ego is reflected in the voice in our head, the 

ongoing  inner  commentary  we  all  are  so  familiar 

with. The ego admonishes and pushes us, chats with 

us,  judges,  fantasizes,  and  tells  us  what  to  do  and 

how to do it. The ego is also behind most sentences 

that begin with “I.”  

This  aspect  of  the  mind  is  often  referred  to  as 

the  egoic  mind  because  it  is  the  aspect  of  the  mind 

that is driven by the ego. The egoic mind is different 

from the more functional mind that we use to read, 

viii 

learn,  calculate,  design,  analyze,  and  so  forth.  The 

functional mind doesn't speak to us but is a tool we 

use when engaged in tasks that require us to think.  

The  ego  tells  us  how  to  run  our  life,  but  it 

doesn’t  have  the  wisdom  to  guide  us.  Instead,  the 

ego  is  the  cause  of  suffering  because  its  voice  is  so 

often  negative  and  leads  to  negative  feelings.  The 

ego’s  perceptions  and  values  are  too  limiting  and 

narrow to encompass the truth about life. The egoic 

mind  is  an  archaic  aspect  of  ourselves  that  we  are 

evolving beyond.  

The  ego—who  we  think  we  are,  with  all  the 

judgments,  conditioning,  and  projections—is  an 

imposter,  and  this  imposter  is  the  saboteur  of  all 

relationships and of happiness in general. Essence is 

who  we  really  are,  the  divine  Self  that  is  living  this 

life  through  us.  It  is  our  essential  goodness.  We  are 

actually  spiritual  beings  playing  at  being  human 

beings. 

Because we are programmed to pay attention to 

the voice in our head, we often fail to notice what is 

actually  going  on  in  the  present  moment—in  the 

Now; we often aren’t present to reality. Most people 

live in a mental world, a virtual world of sorts. When 

we drop out of this mental world into the Now and 

are  fully  present  to  whatever  experience  we  are 

ix 

 

having, we experience a depth, a richness, and a joy 

and peace that feel sacred. When we are in the Now, 

we experience love! Love easily flows outward toward 

others and all life. This is the experience of our true 

self, or Essence. So, when we talk about being in the 

Now  or  being  present  to  life,  we  are  also  talking 

about  this  experience  of  Essence—the  experience  of 

our divine Self.  

The experience of being identified with the ego, 

on  the  other  hand,  is  an  experience  generally  of 

contraction, 

fear, 

judgment,  unhappiness,  and 

discontentment. Love doesn’t flow from the ego. The 

ego’s  relationship  to  relationship  is:  “What  can  you 

do  for  me?”  Love  is  only  experienced  when  we  are 

aligned with Essence. So we can become more loving 

by  learning  to  become  more  aligned  with  Essence 

and  less  identified  with  the  negative,  judgmental 

voice  in  our  head.  This  is  accomplished  by  simply 

becoming  more  aware  of  our  dual  nature  and 

consciously  choosing  to  align  with  love  rather  than 

identify  with  the  egoic  mind’s  judgment  and  other 

thoughts 

that 

cause  negative 

feelings 

and 

contraction.  What  chooses  love?  That  is  the  great 

Mystery, isn’t it? That is Essence—who you really are! 

 

x 

 

 

PART  

LOVE IS… 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS ALL YOU NEED 

We  have  everything  we  need  because  all  we  need  is 

love,  and  everyone  has  an  unlimited  supply  of  that. 

Not everyone may feel love, but it is always there and 

available to give to others.  

The  way  we  experience  the  unlimited  supply  of 

love  is  by  giving  it  away.  That  is  counter-intuitive, 

which  is  why  it  may  seem  like  there  isn't  enough 

love.  When  we  believe  we  need  to  get  love  from 

outside  ourselves,  that  sense  of  lack  stops  the  love 

flowing  from  inside  us  to  others.  Believing  that  you 

need  love  becomes  a  self-fulfilling  prophesy:  You 

believe 

you  need 

love  because 

you 

aren't 

experiencing it, and in trying to get it, you fail to give 

it, so you don't experience it. You can't really do two 

things  at  once:  If  you  are  relating  to  someone,  you 

are either giving your attention (love) to that person 

or trying to get something from that person. You are 

either  in  Essence  (giving  attention)  or  in  ego  (trying 

to  get  attention).  These  are  very  different  states  of 

consciousness,  and  they  result  in  very  different 

experiences.  

 

 

 

The experience of being in ego is an experience of 

lack.  The  ego  never  has  enough  of  anything, 

including  love.  So  the  ego  looks  outside  itself  to  try 

to  get  what  it  feels  it  lacks.  The  ego  tries  to 

manipulate  the  world  to  fill  its  desires  and  so-called 

needs.  

The  experience  of  being  aligned  with  our  true 

nature,  or  Essence,  on  the  other  hand,  is  an 

experience  of  fullness.  If  Essence  has  a  need,  it 

would  be  to  give  love,  to  attend  fully  to  whatever  is 

happening  right  now  in  the  present  moment.  Being 

in  Essence  is  an  experience  of  loving  whatever  is 

arising and giving attention to that out of love for it. 

When we do that, we fall in love with life. And when 

we  are  in  love  with  life  and  with  the  present 

moment,  there  is  a  natural  movement  outward  to 

give to or support whatever is showing up in life.  

That flow of love and attention toward life is the 

experience  of  love  that  everyone  is  looking  for.  It  is 

always possible to give attention and love to whatever 

is  showing  up  in  our  life.  It  is  a  simple  choice,  but 

not so easy to do. The ego doesn't value doing that. 

It  doesn't  believe  that  doing  that  will  get  it  what  it 

wants.  

The  irony  is  that  giving  love  and  attention  to 

whatever is showing up in our life is exactly what gets 

 

 

 

us what we want, and doing what the ego thinks will 

make it happy results in  the opposite.  Life  is a little 

like Alice's experience in Wonderland: Everything is 

backwards.  However,  once  you  realize  that  secret 

about life, your experience of the world changes. Life 

becomes  bountiful  and  supportive  rather  than 

lacking  and  unkind.  The  kindness  that  flows  from 

you  creates  a  kind  world,  not  only  for  you,  but  also 

for others. All you need is love—and you already have 

plenty of that to give! 

From Living in the Now

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS GENTLE 

 

I was listening to a song the other day, and some of 

the  words  were  “Love  is  gentle,  and  love  is  kind.” 

The  truth  of  that  really  touched  me.  We  think  of 

love  as  being  a  feeling—an  emotion—but  true  love  is 

more  of  a  being  and  a  doing,  a  giving,  an 

outpouring.  Love  touches,  love  offers  itself,  love  is 

gentle,  and  it  is  kind.  That's  how  we  know  it.  We 

know  love  by  its  fruits.  Love  gives:  It  listens,  it 

caresses, it nourishes, it nurtures. It does whatever is 

needed  of  it.  Love  naturally  responds  to  life  as  life 

presents itself.  

Romantic love isn't like this at all. Romantic love 

is  a  giddy  feeling,  an  excitement,  an  anticipation  of 

getting  something  from  someone.  It  makes  us  feel 

like  a  kid  at  Christmas—“Yippee!  I'm  going  to  get 

what  a  want!”  Romance  is  exciting,  fun,  and  feels 

wonderful,  but  it's  not  really  love.  It's  too  self-

centered for that. When we are in love, we are often 

oblivious of the needs of others, as we have only the 

beloved  on  our  mind.  We  become  fascinated  and 

obsessed  with  the  beloved  to  the  exclusion  of 

 

 

everything else. We love the beloved, not for what he 

or  she  is,  but  for  what  we  think  that  person  might 

mean  to  us  and  to  our  life.  We  are  excited  because 

the beloved is believed to enhance us.  

The  feelings  of  romantic  love  are  created  by  an 

illusion  (i.e.,  psychological  projection)  and  by  the 

release  of  certain  chemicals  in  the  brain.  Romantic 

feelings  are  a  very  different  kind  of  love  than  true 

love; they are a falling in love with what we hope will 

be our salvation and happiness forever. That kind of 

love never lasts and often disappears upon getting to 

know  someone  better.  If  we  are  lucky,  it  turns  into 

something  truer,  more  real,  more  akin  to  our  true 

nature. 

It  is  our  nature  to  love,  to  be  gentle,  to  be  kind. 

When all thoughts from the egoic mind (the voice in 

your head) drop away or aren't given attention, love 

is  our  natural  response  to  life.  The  only  thing  that 

ever  interferes  with  love  is  a  thought,  usually  a 

judgment or fear. These are the enemies of true love. 

They  undermine  it  and  eat  away  at  it,  or  prevent  it 

altogether.  Love  cannot  exist  in  the  ego's  world  of 

judgment and fear. And yet we, as humans, need and 

want love so desperately. Because of this, we learn to 

love  for  love's  sake,  for  the  joy  of  loving,  without 

conditions, just because it is our nature to love. We 

 

learn to move beyond the ego's judgments and fears 

because doing so is the only way to get what we really 

want—true love. We find a way to love in spite of our 

judgments and fears.  

We discover this very simple truth: Love is an act 

of  kindness,  not  a  giddy  feeling.  Love  is  a  natural 

expression  of  our  true  nature,  not  a  feeling  we  get 

from others. The ego manipulates others to do what 

it  wants  so  that  it  can  feel  love,  but  that's  the 

opposite of love. Love allows others to be just as they 

are. It supports and nurtures, listens, and cares. Love 

flows  toward  others  from  within  us.  It  exists  within 

us and isn't something we get from others. 

This kind of love is the most fulfilling thing in the 

world.  Experiencing  it  doesn't  require  that  you  be 

beautiful or rich or healthy or intelligent or that you 

have a special talent or standing in life; experiencing 

it  only  requires  that  you  express  it.  It's  free  and  it 

frees us, and it frees others from the ensnarement of 

the  false  self.  It's  the  greatest  gift  and  one  that 

doesn't cost the giver anything. It takes nothing from 

the  giver  and  returns  everything.  This  is  the  great 

secret we are meant to discover. 

 

From Living in the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE TRANSCENDS APPEARANCES 

Appearances  seem  so  important.  Most  of  us  believe 

that our appearance is very important, and we work 

very hard at looking a certain way. This is especially 

true  for  women,  of  course,  and  this  conditioning  is 

very difficult to overcome because there's a lot of fear 

that  not 

looking 

good  will  have  drastic 

consequences.  For many people, appearance is a top 

priority  and  often  remains  that  way  right  up  until 

death. My mother, for instance, insisted on “putting 

on  her  face”  even  on  her  deathbed  after  her  body 

had  been  diminished  to  skin  and  bones  by  cancer. 

Even then, she was still trying to improve herself, still 

not  seeing  the  beauty  that  she  was  as  this  old  dying 

woman,  still  not  allowing  herself  to  just  be  as  she 

was.  

Our  appearance  does  affect  how  others  initially 

react  to  us.  However,  it's  not  as  important  as  we 

make  it.  We  suffer  over  it  and  try  so  hard  to  look 

other  than  the  way  we  do.  All  of  this  trying  is 

exhausting  and  takes  time  and  energy  away  from 

things that are more fulfilling and important in life. 

 

That's the problem—when we are consumed with our 

appearance,  we  aren't  giving  our  attention  and 

energy 

to  other 

things 

that  might  be  more 

meaningful, fulfilling, and rewarding. We might not 

discover that cultivating  kindness is more rewarding 

than  cultivating  beauty.  We  might  fail  to  notice  the 

beauty that is here, within ourselves and others, just 

as we are.  

Inner  beauty  and  outer  beauty  can  be  at  odds, 

since there is only so much attention and energy we 

have.  Where  your  energy  and  attention  go  reflects 

what  you  value.  Do  you  value  outer  beauty  more 

than  inner  beauty?  You  might  say  you  don't,  but 

where  are  you  putting  your  energy  and  attention? 

What are your thoughts on?  

The  funny  thing  is  that  others  love  us  for  our 

inner  beauty,  for  the  unique  expression  of  Essence 

that we are, although they may be attracted to us by 

our outer beauty. However, that allure doesn't mean 

much  if  they  don't  also  fall  in  love  with  us.  What 

people fall in love with isn't our outer beauty (that's 

attraction  or  infatuation,  not  love),  but  something 

much more subtle—our being.  They love us because 

they  see  lovable  qualities  that  belong  to  Essence: 

goodness,  creativity,  kindness,  joy  for  life,  patience, 

 

 

so on.  

compassion,  courage,  wisdom,  strength,  clarity,  and 

The  beauty  of  getting  old  with  someone  is  the 

opportunity it presents to really get that appearances 

don't  matter.  You  watch  as  your  beloved  changes 

before your eyes into an old man or old woman, but 

you may love him or her more than ever, not because 

of  how  he  or  she  looks,  but  because  you  love  your 

beloved's  being—you  love  how  he  or  she  is  in  the 

world  and  with  you.  That's  when  you  really  get  that 

all 

this 

emphasis  on 

appearances 

is 

false. 

Appearances  never  were  that  important.  You  only 

thought they were.  

Just because most people believe that appearances 

are  important  doesn't  make  it  so.  People  are  under 

the illusion that appearances are far more important 

than they are, which does create that reality to some 

extent—it  makes  this  seem  true.  This  illusion  results 

in a culture that's sadly misled into putting too much 

energy  and  attention  on  such  things.  This  cultural 

illusion  makes  it  more  difficult  to  discover  the 

truth—that  appearances  aren't  that  important.  But 

life  is  wise  and  ages  us  so  that  we  can  discover  the 

truth. It is perhaps one of the greatest lessons of our 

lives, although it may take a lifetime to learn it.  

 

If  we  realize 

that  appearances  aren't 

that 

important,  then  aging  can  be  experienced  as 

fortunate,  as  it  gives  us  the  gift  of  finally  getting  to 

relax  and  stop  striving  to  improve  ourselves.  We 

finally get to put our attention on what's important—

on loving others (and ourselves) just the way we are. 

This  is  the  greatest  gift  we  can  give  others  and 

ourselves,  and  the  most  important  thing  we  can  do 

in life. 

 

From Living in the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS ACCEPTANCE 

Some people are easier to love than others, and they 

are the ones, therefore, who experience a lot of love. 

They  experience  it  both  within  themselves  and 

coming  to  them  from  others.  What  is  their  secret? 

Amazing  good  looks?  No.  Stunning  personalities? 

No.  Money  and  power?  No.  Their  secret  is  none  of 

the  things  we  assume  will  make  us  more  lovable. 

Their  secret  is  that  they  love,  and  by  that  I  mean, 

they  accept  others  the  way  they  are.  Isn’t  that  when 

you  feel  loved—when  you  feel  accepted  rather  than 

judged? 

Acceptance is the opposite of judgment and the 

antidote  to  judgment,  and  acceptance  brings  us  the 

experience of love. What is the experience of love? It 

is  the  experience  of  accepting  and  being  accepted, 

the experience of relaxation, of being able to just be, 

without  struggling  and  striving  to  be  any  different 

than we are or requiring that others be different than 

however they are. That is what we all want—to just be 

able to relax and be okay just the way we are and to 

be okay with others just the way they are. 

 

When  someone  gives  us  this  gift  of  acceptance, 

we  love  them.  What  a  gift!  It  is  a  gift  you  would 

never  reject  and  hopefully  one  you  will  return, 

because  returning  it—giving  others  this  gift—brings 

you  the  experience  of  love.  Loving  and  accepting 

others  feels  good.  It  is  its  own  reward.  It  isn’t  even 

necessary for others to love and accept you in return 

because  it’s  enough  to  just  feel  love  and  acceptance 

for others. 

The  ego  loves,  or  tries  to  love,  in  order  to  get 

love or something else it wants. But this kind of love 

isn’t really love. It’s more like being nice, and it may 

not entail acceptance at all but something more like 

tolerance for the purpose of getting something. This 

is  a  very  different  experience  than  love.  Tolerating 

people is better than not tolerating them, but it’s not 

the  same  as  enjoying  them,  which  can  only  come 

from true acceptance.  

You  accept  others  because  you  appreciate  the 

unique  expression  of  life  that  they  are.  What 

amazing  things  these  human  forms  are!  And  all  the 

different  personalities!  When  we  can  just  let  people 

be the way they are, it is such a relief—for us and for 

them. Allowing people to just be is loving them, and 

this  appreciation  and  allowing  flows  from  our  true 

nature,  or  Essence,  which  is  love.  Accepting  and 

 

 

loving is how Essence feels toward life and every one 

of its creations. 

What  makes  someone  lovable?  Certainly  their 

acceptance of us makes them lovable. But what also 

makes 

them 

lovable 

is 

their  acceptance  of 

themselves.  People  who  accept  themselves,  who  are 

gentle  and  kind  to  themselves,  are  also  gentle  and 

kind  to  others.  We  see  these  qualities  in  them,  and 

we  relax.  And  when  we  relax,  we  become  aligned 

with our true nature.  

People  who  love  and  accept  themselves  are 

lovable because they reflect Essence, and that’s what 

we  all  really  want—not  someone  to  do  our  every 

bidding and match our every fantasy. What we really 

want is to be with someone who knows how to love 

because  our  deepest  desire  is  to  love.  Therefore,  we 

are drawn to those who know how to love. They are 

our teachers—the way-showers in this world. And this 

is our destiny as well—to be a place of refuge, where 

egos  dissolve  and  all  that  is  left  is  the  love  that  we 

are. 

 

From Loving in the Moment 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS A CHOICE 

We tend to think of love as an uncontrollable feeling 

that  comes  over  us.  Although  this  overwhelming 

feeling  does  happen,  real  love  and  love  that  is 

sustained is always a choice: You choose to be open 

to  someone,  you  choose  to  accept  them,  and  that 

openness  and  acceptance  allows  love  to  flow.  This 

process  is  often  unconscious,  so  we  often  don’t 

realize we are choosing to accept someone when  it’s 

happening.  But  that  choice  to  accept  someone  is 

what precedes love. It happens unconsciously all the 

time, and it can happen more consciously too. 

When 

acceptance 

and 

love 

happen 

unconsciously,  it’s  often  because  someone  fits  our 

ideas, desires, and conditioning. We find that person 

pleasing because we identify with him or her in some 

way,  probably  because  we  see  qualities  similar  to 

ours, or perhaps because we see a quality we admire 

and  would  like  to  develop.  When  our  acceptance 

doesn’t happen automatically and unconsciously, we 

can simply choose to accept someone  because he  or 

she is different or unusual in some way. 

 

 

 

You  can 

learn 

to  welcome  and  embrace 

differences rather than reject them, as the ego  does. 

When  you  do  that,  you  open  up  a  new  world  of 

possibilities  in  relationship  with  people  you  never 

thought  you  could  love.  You  still  might  not  choose 

to have relationships with them, but you don’t have 

to  miss  out  on  the  experience  of  love  by  rejecting 

them  just  because  they’re  different  from  you  or 

because they don’t match your conditioning in some 

other way. 

It’s useful to notice how much we withhold love 

from  others  because  they  are  different.  Once  you 

become  more  conscious  of  this  tendency,  you  are 

free  to  make  another  choice—to  choose  to  celebrate 

differences  rather  than  reject  them—and  that  choice 

opens  your  heart  and  your 

life  up 

to  new 

possibilities. 

 

From Loving in the Moment 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS BEING IN ESSENCE 

Our true nature, Essence, is love. To be in Essence is 

to be in love. If love is what you want (do you?), then 

being in Essence and staying there is how to have it. 

The  problem  is  that  we  have  other  agendas—other 

desires—when  we  are  in  relationship.  Sometimes  we 

want  to  be  right  more  than  we  want  to  experience 

love.  Sometimes  we  want  to  be  separate  and  avoid 

being  vulnerable  more  than  we  want  to  experience 

love.  And  sometimes  we  want  what  we  want  more 

than we want love.  

It’s  important  to  realize  that  there  are  reasons 

why  we  don’t  choose  love  as  often  as  we  could. 

There’s  a  payoff  for  the  ego  in  not  choosing  love, 

and  it’s  good  to  be  aware  of  what  you  are  trading 

love for. When we are identified with the ego, other 

things seem more important than love, because they 

are more important to the ego than love. That’s the 

catch. The ego doesn’t choose love. 

So what are you to do if you are identified with 

the ego, but you know Essence enough to want that? 

That’s the situation so many of us find ourselves in. 

 

 

Very  few  of  us  live  from  Essence  most  of  the  time. 

There’s  an  answer,  though.  When  you  do  choose 

love, that’s Essence choosing love. Essence is able to 

reach into the egoic state of consciousness and draw 

us to itself, but we have to be willing to pay attention 

to  Essence  instead  of  the  egoic  mind  (the  voice  in 

our head). Essence won’t shout at you like the egoic 

mind does. It won’t try to convince you, scare you, or 

bully  you  to  come  to  it,  like  the  egoic  mind  does. 

Essence  whispers  softly  in  each  moment.  It  entices 

you  with  feelings  of  love,  joy,  peace,  contentment, 

and  happiness  that  seep  into  the  egoic  state  of 

consciousness.  When  you  pay  attention  to  these 

feelings,  you  are  paying  attention  to  Essence,  and 

doing that drops you into Essence. 

The way out  of  the egoic state of consciousness 

and  into  Essence  is  not  a  hard  road  after  all.  All  it 

takes  is  paying  attention  to  the  love,  joy,  peace, 

contentment,  compassion,  wisdom,  and  happiness 

that  are  already  here  in  this  moment.  Can  you  feel 

them—any  of  them—even  just  a  little?  That  is  your 

doorway into Essence. Even a sliver of love or peace 

or  joy  can  take  you  there.  Pay  attention  to  that 

sliver—notice  it—and  then  that  will  become  your 

experience of the moment instead of your thoughts. 

Instead of noticing your thoughts, notice these subtle 

 

feelings and qualities that belong to Essence, and you 

are  there!  Making  this  choice  isn’t  difficult  or 

unpleasant, but it is a choice. 

This  is  also  the  answer  to  finding  love  in 

relationship: Notice the love that’s there and not the 

other  person’s  persona,  words,  or  actions.  This 

person in front of you is playing a part. Let that part 

be played, recognize it as a part, and enjoy it. It’s all 

play—lila, as the Hindu mystics say: God playing with 

God  in  many  forms.  What  fun!  Essence  enjoys  the 

characters that we are. It accepts them and revels in 

their  quirkiness  and  uniqueness.  It  has  compassion 

for  their  pain  and  the  suffering  they  bring  to 

themselves and to others. It accepts this pain as part 

of life too. 

Essence  accepts  whatever  your  partner  is  doing 

or  saying  because  Essence  knows  that  it’s  not  the 

whole  truth  of  him  or  her.  Essence  sees  the  truth 

about  the  other,  and  it  loves  the  other  because  the 

other is itself. To Essence, it’s clear that the other is 

no  different  from  itself.  It  feels  and  sees  the 

sameness. It knows only Oneness. It can’t be fooled 

by  words,  behavior,  and  looks.  Appearances  can’t 

totally hide the truth. Look into your beloved’s eyes 

and see. 

 

 

This is the experience you have to look forward 

to when you choose Essence over the ego, love over 

being  right  or  superior,  acceptance  over  judgment, 

kindness  over  criticism,  and  unity  over  being 

separate and safe. These are your choices, which can 

only be made by you. Happiness and love depend on 

them,  but  happiness  and  love  can  wait.  Essence  is 

patient, and it will wait as long as it has to for you to 

choose it over the ego. 

It’s time to choose Essence, to choose love. You 

choose  Essence  not  just  for  your  own  happiness  or 

for a happy relationship, but also for peace, love, and 

happiness  for  all—for  the  rest  of  you  in  your  many 

guises.  You  are  here  to  find  love,  not  just  for 

yourself, but also for the divine Self, which has been 

hiding  love  from  you  in  this  world  of  form  just  so 

that  you  could  have  the  pleasure  and  amazement of 

discovering  it  in  the  simple  quiet  of  this  moment—

and in your beloved’s eyes. 

 

 

From Loving in the Moment 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS RECOGNIZING THE DIVINE SELF 

Love flows when we recognize our own divine Self in 

another. It flows when we are able to see beyond (or 

behind)  the  egoic  mask  to  the  real  Self,  which  is 

exquisitely  lovable  and  which  evokes  love.  All  the 

qualities  we  love  in  another  are  qualities  of  the 

divine  Self,  of  Essence:  compassion,  understanding, 

wisdom, kindness, love, patience, and inner strength. 

These  are  not  qualities  of  the  ego,  which  is 

innately  self-centered  and  focused  on  its  needs. 

Where  are  the  wisdom,  compassion,  and  love  in 

that?  Is  it  any  wonder  that  when  we  are  identified 

with  the  ego,  we  don’t  feel  very  lovable?  The  ego  is 

not very lovable, but our true nature, or Essence, is; 

and when we are aligned with Essence, even our ego 

and the egos of others are experienced as lovable. 

The  ego  doesn’t  know  how  to  love,  but  the 

Divine  in  us—Essence—does.  Essence  loves.  It’s  also 

wise,  understanding,  kind,  compassionate,  sensitive, 

patient, and caring. Anything you would want a lover 

or another human being to be comes from Essence, 

not from the ego. 

 

 

 

The  love  that  the  ego  has  to  offer  is  tainted  by 

self-interest.  “What’s  in  it  for  me?”  lingers  in  the 

background  of  every  interaction  between  those  who 

are  aligned  with  their  egos.  This  is  not  love,  but 

manipulation  disguised  as  love  or  kindness.  It  may 

be better than undisguised manipulation, but it’s still 

not  love  in  its  purest  sense.  The  ego  and  love  can’t 

inhabit the same space. One must go. 

Pure love can only come from Essence, which is 

unadulterated  goodness.  Essence  loves  because  it 

feels  good  to  love  and  for  no  other  reason.  Essence 

loves because it is its nature to love; we love because 

it is our nature to love. 

From Loving in the Moment 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS BEHIND ALL LIFE 

If  evil  were  behind  life,  this  would  be  a  sad  world, 

indeed. As bad as it can get here, there are probably 

few  people  that  feel  that  evil  is  what  is  behind  this 

world.  Certainly  few  want  evil  to  be  behind  this 

world, and that’s a good sign. Something in us wants 

and  gravitates  toward  goodness,  not  evil.  Negativity 

tugs  at  us  and  even  grabs  hold  of  us  at  times,  but 

something  else  continually  pulls  us  toward  the 

opposite, toward love.  

Just as darkness is the absence of light, evil is the 

absence of love. Evil isn’t a reality itself but the result 

of  the  absence  of  contact  with  Reality,  with  what  is 

true—love.  Evil  is  the  result  of  being  divorced  from 

our  true  nature,  being  very,  very  divorced,  so 

divorced  that  someone  might  not  even  believe  in 

love because he or she has so much fear and so much 

difficulty  feeling  love.  Such  deep  separation  is  a 

frightening and lost place.  

The  spectrum  of  life  is  a  spectrum  of  love:  On 

one  end  is  pure  love  and  the  experience  of  oneness 

with all life, and on the  other end is the absence  of 

 

 

love  and  the  experience  of  complete  separation  and 

fear.  What  exists  in  the  absence  of  love  is  fear,  and 

fear can produce hateful acts.  

Those  who  are  lost  in  the  deepest  separation 

need our love and compassion; and yet, they are the 

ones who are most difficult to love. Nevertheless, no 

one is ever irretrievable. All eventually return to love. 

This  journey  on  earth,  which  takes  many,  many 

lifetimes, is a return to love and a rediscovery of our 

oneness  with  all,  in  fact,  of  our  true  nature  as 

Oneness.  The  journey  is  a  beautiful  one  because  it 

ends  in  love.  It  takes  us  away  from  separation  and 

returns us to unity. This is surely evidence that love 

is  behind  all  Life.  We  evolve  from  feeling  very 

separate to realizing our oneness with all life. What a 

wonderful  discovery  and  ending  to  this  adventure 

called life. Life is good. 

How do I know this? You don’t have to take my 

word  for  it.  Many,  many  have  gone  before  us,  and 

this  is  what  they  report  and  have  reported.  These 

individuals are the ones we revere as saints, spiritual 

masters,  avatars,  and  founders  of  our  religions.  We 

revere  them  because  we  want  the  peace,  love,  and 

wisdom that they embody.  

We want peace, love, and wisdom because these 

are  what  bring  meaning  and  joy  to  life.  Why? 

 

Because peace, love, and wisdom are what is behind 

life. We don’t revere murderers and rapists or those 

who  torture,  maim,  and  steal  from  others.  Why? 

Because we know what’s true and good when we see 

it. We just know it. All societies value love. Love not 

only  helps  us  survive  by  making  it  possible  to 

cooperate  with  others,  but  love  feels  good;  it  just 

feels right. We know the rightness of love, and that is 

why we can trust life. Life is all about love. 

 

From Trusting Life 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE IS WHAT DRIVES LIFE 

Fear  drives  the  ego,  but  love  drives  life.  Love  drives 

all that matters in life. Love is the motivating force in 

life  that  creates,  sustains,  enhances,  and  gives 

meaning  to  life.  There  is  nothing  else  here  but  love 

because Life is love. We are love.  

This  Love  is  hidden  only  by  a  sense  of  being 

someone who is afraid of life. The ego is this sense of 

ourselves  as  small,  afraid,  and  inadequate.  Our 

identity  as  a  separate  individual,  as  the  ego,  is  of 

someone  who 

feels 

lacking, 

insignificant, 

lost, 

confused, afraid, struggling, and in conflict with life. 

So it’s no wonder the ego wants and feels it needs so 

much  to  be  okay  and  happy.  But  this  is  a  false 

identity  and  false  needs—we  need  nothing  but  what 

we already have to be happy.  

We  are  not  the  individual  we  think  we  are.  We 

are life. It is living through us. And when the ego is 

put  aside,  Life  lives  through  us  more  cleanly  and 

purely,  and  with  ease,  gratitude,  fortitude,  joy,  and 

love.  When  the  ego  is  no  longer  dominant,  it 

 

becomes obvious that  all that’s here is Essence  being 

and relishing in being. 

Life  is  trustworthy  because  love  is  behind  life. 

Love  is  what  is  unfolding  life  and  making  life 

happen.  Love  is  the  motivating  force  in  all  we  do: 

Love for our life, our body, and food motivates us to 

grow,  shop  for,  prepare,  and  eat  what  we  need  to 

sustain  us.  Love  for  self-expression,  expansion, 

discovery,  and  self-development  motivates  us  to 

speak,  learn,  create,  expand  our  capabilities,  and 

develop  our  talents.  Love  for  others  motivates  us  to 

procreate, relate, give, care for, nurture, and support 

others  and  society.  Love  for  pleasure  and  fun 

motivates us to play, rest, sing, dance, and enjoy life. 

Love for security and safety motivates us to be careful 

and take care of ourselves. Love for being productive 

motivates us to work and develop our skills. Love for 

knowledge  motivates  us  to  learn,  read,  and  share 

what we’ve learned.  

Love allows us to identify with the ego, and love 

is  even  what  motivates  the  ego:  Love  for  security, 

safety,  self-preservation,  superiority,  power,  comfort, 

and  prestige  motivate  the  ego  to  pursue  what  it 

pursues, such as money, beauty, and a good job.  

The ego and Essence are motivated to do many 

of the same things: Both motivate us to take care of 

 

 

ourselves,  work,  play,  pursue  relationships,  and  in 

other  ways  create  a  life.  However,  the  ego  and 

Essence do these things for different reasons. While 

Essence  does  them  for  the  love  of  life,  the  love  of 

being alive, and the drive to perpetuate life, the  ego 

does them out of feelings of lack and fear in order to 

gain  superiority  and  control.  Because  the  ego  acts 

from  fear,  it  often  causes  harm,  but  even  love  is 

behind  that, albeit a distorted version  of  it: love  for 

what the ego is trying to get by harming someone or 

love for its own self-preservation.  

Because  the  ego  sees  itself  as  separate  from 

everything,  it  is  driven  by  fear  and  sees  others  and 

the  world  as  something  to  conquer  or  subdue.  This 

is  obvious  in  how  people  have  related  to  the 

environment.  While  native  peoples  have  generally 

viewed  themselves  as  part  of  a  Whole  and  as 

belonging to and caretakers of nature, our ego-driven 

societies  have  related  to  the  environment  and  other 

peoples as something to control and use for our own 

needs, without considering the impact of our actions 

on  the  Whole.  These  are  two  very  different  ways  of 

being,  which  come  from  very  different  states  of 

consciousness  and  result  in  very  different  worlds.  If 

we  don’t  begin  to  relate  to  the  world  more  from 

Essence instead of the ego, there may not be much of 

 

a world left. Raising our consciousness is not just for 

ourselves, but for everyone and for the earth—for the 

Whole. 

Many  think  that  if  they  don’t  live  as  the  ego 

would have them live, they’ll end up doing nothing. 

They  think  that  spiritual  teachings  that  emphasize 

meditation,  acceptance,  and  being  in  the  moment 

lead  to  being  passive  and  avoiding  the  world  and 

practical  matters.  Many  assume  they  won’t  get 

anything done or be able to pay their bills if they live 

as 

these 

teachings 

suggest.  But 

that’s 

a 

misunderstanding.  These  teachings  emphasize  what 

they  do  because  doing  these  things  drops  us  into 

Essence, where we can then discover how Essence is 

moving us to act now in the world and what wisdom 

and insights it might have for us that can inform our 

life  and  actions.  How  do  we  know  what  to  do  and 

how  to  live  our  life?  Instead  of  getting  the  answers 

from  the  egoic  mind,  we  can  find  out  by  paying 

attention to what’s coming out of the Now.  

Life  happens,  and  it  happens  through  us.  We 

can  be  moved  by  the  ego  and  its  fear,  or  we  can  let 

life  happen  through  us  as  it’s  meant  to  by  letting 

Essence  move  us.  Essence  is  motivated  by  love,  not 

by fear, and the results of Essence moving through us 

are peace, harmony, unity, and love. The only thing 

 

 

 

that can interfere with wiser and more loving action 

in  this  world  is  following  the  ego’s  fear  and  letting 

the  ego  dominate  our  lives.  When  we’re  no  longer 

listening to the egoic mind, Life has a chance to flow 

through us as it’s meant  to and as it naturally does, 

even to some extent when we are ego identified. 

From Trusting Life 

 

PART  

 

 

BEING LOVING 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE THE UNIQUENESS IN EVERYONE 

The  ego—the  aspect  of  ourselves  that  appears  to  be 

running the show and using our mind, via the voice 

in  our  head,  to  do  it—is  deeply  conditioned,  or 

programmed, to react to differences as alien to itself 

and  therefore  potentially  dangerous.  It  views  others 

as  a  threat  to  its  survival,  and  yet  it  needs  others  to 

survive. 

What  a  dilemma  and  interesting  situation  we 

find  ourselves in. As  long as we see ourselves as the 

ego  and  identify  with  the  voice  in  our  head,  we  are 

bound to feel tension between ourselves and others, 

especially  when  we  perceive  differences.  Since  every 

person  is  entirely  unique  from  every  other,  this 

tension is nearly ongoing. We experience occasional 

relief from it when we meet someone who is similar 

to  us  in  some  way,  or  when  we  think  someone  is 

similar, but eventually the differences show up. 

The  ego  feels  that  it  must  do  something  about 

these  differences.  It  points  them  out,  judges  them, 

argues  with  them,  attacks  them,  and  tries  to  change 

them.  Differences  make  the  ego  feel  superior, 

 

 

 

 

inferior,  defensive,  frightened,  or  angry—not  loving, 

kind,  compassionate,  or  even  curious.  For  the  ego, 

differences  stir  up  inner  and  outer  conflict  and 

plenty  of  feelings.  This  is  the  ego’s  experience  of 

relationships. 

For  the  ego,  relationships  are  difficult  and 

stressful,  and  other  people  are  never  quite  right.  “If 

only . . . ,” it dreams. It’s sure the problem is that the 

right person just hasn’t come along: “If only the right 

person  would  come  into  my  life,  then  I  could  relax 

and 

live  happily  ever  after.”  Even 

those 

in 

relationships  often  secretly  dream  of  another  more 

perfect relationship. 

This is the way the ego deals with every aspect of 

life, not only relationships: It longs and hopes for a 

better this and a better that. It isn’t satisfied with life, 

no matter what life brings. It sees life as falling short 

no  matter  what  happens,  and  it  sees  relationships 

this  way  as  well.  As  long  as  our  identity  is  tied  up 

with the ego and its servant, the egoic mind, we will 

never be satisfied with life or with our relationships. 

Fortunately,  we  are  not  our  ego  or  the  voice  in 

our head. We are only programmed to think we are. 

Once you see this, you can begin to experience your 

true  Self—Essence—and  live  your  life  and  carry  on 

your  relationships  from  there.  From  Essence,  true 

 

 

 

love is entirely possible. But true love is not possible 

from the ego. What does the ego know about love? It 

knows only about protecting its interests, and there’s 

no room for that in true love. 

From Loving in the Moment 

 

 

 

 

GIVE FREELY 

 

The  ego  is  always  trying  to  get  something  for  itself 

from  others  and  from  the  environment  because  it’s 

afraid and unhappy. The ego believes it doesn't have 

enough  to  be  happy,  so  its  strategy  is  to  withhold 

what  it  has  and  try  to  get  more  of  what  it  thinks  it 

needs to be happy.  

This strategy may seem sensible—and to the ego, 

it is. However, the real solution to the perception of 

not  having  enough  is  to  see  that  that  perception  is 

erroneous and that we have always had enough to be 

happy.  Right  now,  we  are  existing  and  being 

supported  in  that  existence,  which  has  always  been 

true and will  be true for the remainder of our lives. 

From the place of realizing we have what we need to 

be happy, and only from that place of completeness, 

can  giving  happen,  because  if  we  believe  we  don't 

have enough to be happy, why would we give? 

The ego's belief in not having enough blocks love, 

which  is  essentially  an  outflow  of  attention,  energy, 

or  gifts  to  others.  When  the  majority  of  people 

believe  they  don't  have  enough  to  be  happy,  the 

 

 

global  flow  of  love  and  energy  is  sluggish.  However, 

when  the  majority  of  people  believe  otherwise,  love 

and energy flow, proving the abundance and support 

that is available in life.  

We are free to choose the ego's way and withhold 

what  we  have  to  give  or  to  give  more  freely.  The 

result of these two choices is very different: When we 

give  freely,  we  feel  full  and  complete;  when  we 

withhold, we feel small, petty, impotent, and lacking. 

We  are  meant  to  learn  that  giving  ful-fills  us,  while 

withholding and trying to get causes us to feel empty 

and  even  more  needy.  This  understanding  runs 

counter  to  our  programming,  which  drives  us  to  try 

to get something from others to fulfill our neediness, 

only  to  end  up  even  more  needy,  grasping,  lacking, 

and unfulfilled.  

The  value  of  giving  is  one  of  the  great  secrets  of 

life. Giving requires a leap of faith, an ability to trust 

that giving is worthwhile. Once we begin to trust this 

and  see  the  results  of  giving,  then  giving  becomes 

much  easier,  even  when  we  feel  we  don't  have 

enough. To make this leap, we only need to see that 

the  feeling  of  not  having  enough  isn't  true,  but 

merely  the  way  the  ego  sees  life.  Feelings  don't  tell 

the  truth  about  life,  but  are  an  outgrowth  of  the 

programming of the false self.  

 

Allowing  the  perception  of  lack  to  interfere  with 

giving  results  in  the  very  sense  of  lack  the  ego 

believes in. The ego's belief in not having enough is a 

self-fulfilling  prophecy.  As  long  as  we  believe  we 

don't have enough to be happy, we won't give and we 

won't  discover  the  truth,  which  is  that  Life  is 

abundantly  providing  for  us  to  the  extent  that  we 

join  the  global  flow,  the  outpouring  of  giving.  If  we 

hold  ourselves  separate  from  the  Whole,  however, 

then we won't benefit as fully from the flow of Life as 

possible. Life is calling to us to jump into the flow of 

abundance  and  to  contribute  our  share.  The  more 

who do that, the more abundantly we all can live. 

 

From Embracing the Now

 

 

 

 

 

 

EXPERIENCE THE SOURCE OF LOVE 

WITHIN 

Many wonder, "How can I get more love in my life?"  

The  problem  with  this  question  is  that  it  assumes 

you  don't  have  enough  love  right  now  and  that  you 

have  to  do  something  to  get  it.  It  also  assumes  that 

love  is  something  we  get  from  other  people.  If  you 

believe these assumptions, you will get busy trying to 

do  something  to  get  love,  and  you  will  be  doing 

those  things  from  a  sense  of  lack,  which  is  not 

particularly attractive. When we believe we lack love, 

we  create  a  sense  of  lack  within  ourselves,  and  that 

sense  of  lack  becomes  somewhat  of  a  self-fulfilling 

prophesy,  as  people  sense  that  we  want  something 

from them.  

When  we  are  looking  to  get  something  from 

people, even love, it's coming from the ego, which is 

a  place 

of 

self-centeredness, 

tension, 

and 

discontentment:  "What  can  you  do  for  me?"  Other 

egos  are  also  looking  for  what  someone  else  can  do 

for  them.  Those  who  are  looking  for  something  or 

someone to fulfill them from the outside aren't likely 

 

to  find  it,  not  only  because  other  people  don't 

necessarily  want  to  fill  that  role,  but  also,  more 

importantly,  because  we  can  never  get  enough  love 

from  outside  ourselves  to  fulfill  the  ego's  sense  of 

lack.  

The  only  solution  to  wanting  more  love  is 

realizing the truth about love: It is our nature to love, 

and each of us has an unlimited supply of it, but we 

must choose to activate this supply of love by giving 

it away. The way to have the experience of love is to 

give  love.  When  love  is  flowing  from  us,  we 

experience  love.  It  doesn't  come  from  others.  This 

becomes apparent when someone is in love with us, 

but  we  aren't  in  love  with  him  or  her.  Someone 

loving us isn't enough to get us to feel love. Love isn't 

something someone can give us. What we really want 

is  to  feel  the  love  that  we  are.  The  source  of  love  is 

inside of us, and we experience love when we choose 

to give it to others. 

We are used to thinking of love as an emotion, a 

feeling that sweeps over us, like when we fall in love. 

Falling in love is the most wonderful feeling, and yet, 

the  feeling  of  falling  in  love  isn't  true  love,  and  it 

doesn't  last.  We  long  for  that  feeling  to  be  our 

ongoing experience, but it can't be. Falling in love is 

a feeling that comes and eventually goes. True love is 

 

 

not so much a feeling as a way of being. It's a state of 

acceptance,  openness,  kindness,  and  receptivity  to 

another.  We  experience  love  as  a  result  of  being 

open and attentive to and accepting of whomever is 

in front of us.  

Love  also  flows  when  we  are  simply  open  to  and 

accepting  of  life  and  whatever  experience  we  are 

having. Love flows from us (and is experienced by us) 

whenever we are fully present and accepting  of how 

life  is  showing  up,  whether  a  relationship  is  part  of 

that moment or not. Love flows whenever we aren't 

complaining about life, wanting something different, 

or judging and evaluating whatever is going on.  

Love  is  our  natural  state.  It's  the  state  we  drop 

into whenever we are simply saying yes to how life is 

showing up in the moment. The only thing that can 

interfere with this yes is the egoic mind saying no to 

life. So the only thing that can interfere with love is a 

thought!  No  person  or  circumstance  can  interfere 

with our ability to feel love unless we allow it to. And 

no  person  can  make  us  feel  love  unless  we  allow  it 

either.  The  really  good  news  is  that  love  is  a 

possibility  in  every  moment.  It's  in  our  control.  It's 

our  choice:  We  can  choose  to  love  whatever  and 

whomever we are experiencing or not.  

 

Our  default  position  as  humans  seems  to  be  to 

reject  and  find  fault  with  our  experience  and  with 

the people we encounter. But that doesn't have to be 

our  response  to  life.  We  have  the  power  to  ignore 

the  judgments  and  negativity  of  our  minds  and  to 

open  our  hearts  in  acceptance  to  whatever  happens 

to be showing up. When we do that, we discover that 

there's no shortage of love.  

When we are very present to whatever experience 

we  are  having  instead  of  involved  in  our  thoughts 

about  life,  love  flows  outward  from  within  us  to 

whatever  and  whomever  we  are  experiencing.  We 

also  find  that  love  from  others  is  the  natural 

response  to  this  outward  flow.  But  the  love  that's 

returned to us is not the source of our love, as nice 

as that love might be.  

You  are  the  source  of  love,  and  you  have  the 

power  to  feel  love.  In  any  moment,  you  can  choose 

love  instead  of  following  your  train  of  thoughts 

about  what  you  want  and  how  you'd  like  things  to 

be.  You  are  the  creator  of  your  experience  because 

you can choose how you respond to life. We may not 

be able to control what comes our way and whether 

we are in a relationship with someone at a particular 

time. But we can control how we choose to see and 

respond  to  whatever  life  brings  us.  Once  we've 

 

 

 

learned that we are masters of our experience in this 

way,  life  can  be  full  of  love  whether  we  have 

someone special returning our love or not. 

From Living in the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

PUT LOVE ABOVE BEING RIGHT 

The  desire  to  be  right  is  one  of  the  ego’s  strongest 

desires because being right is felt to be closely tied to 

survival. Being right puts us on top, and that’s where 

the ego wants to be because the ego thinks that being 

on top will keep it safe. Again and again, the ego will 

choose  being  right  over  love  and  connection  with 

others.  This  tendency  to  make  being  right  more 

important  than  love  is  what  makes  relationships  so 

difficult.  When  people  in  a  relationship  are  ego 

identified, both want to be right, and that’s especially 

impossible when no one is actually right!  

The  reason  that  no  one  is  actually  right  is 

because  disagreements  are  based  on  conditioning, 

and  conditioning 

is 

simply  different  beliefs. 

Everyone  thinks  their  beliefs  are  right;  however, 

there  is  no  absolute  truth  when  it  comes  to  beliefs, 

only  relative  truth.  Conditioning  is  conditioning, 

and  all  conditioning  bears  the  stamp  of  the  ego. 

Conditioning  is  made  up  of  generalizations,  beliefs 

that  have  been  passed  on,  truisms,  cultural  and 

religious  training,  and  other  acquired  ideas.  When 

 

 

we  are  attached  to  our  conditioning  and  to  being 

right,  we  argue  about  things  like  the  right  way  to 

make the bed or wash the dishes. Getting the other 

person  to  do  things  our  way  becomes  more 

important than loving that person and accepting that 

we are all different. 

Our  true  self,  Essence,  loves  our  differences,  or 

we  wouldn’t  be  the  way  we  are.  Life  wouldn’t  be 

what  it  is  if  we  weren’t  different  from  each  other. 

What  an  amazing  thing  it  is  that  each  of  us  is  so 

unique!  However,  the  ego  feels  threatened  by  these 

differences,  and  so  it  is  uncomfortable  with  them. 

We  are  designed  to  both  love  others  and  disagree 

with  them.  It’s  part  of  our  evolution  to  learn  to 

lovingly  disagree,  which  requires  that  we  hold  our 

differences  more  lightly  than  the  ego  is  used  to 

doing.  

Wanting  to  be  right  is  not  a  worthwhile  desire, 

and that has to be seen. This desire is the ego doing 

what  egos  do.  Choosing  love  over  being  right  is  the 

choice  that  brings  happiness  because  choosing  love 

over our conditioning shifts us out of the ego’s world 

and  into  Essence’s.  Essence  chooses  love  because 

Essence  is  moving  all  of  life  toward  love.  Whenever 

we choose love over being right, or any other value of 

the  ego,  we  drop  into  Essence  and  immediately 

 

experience  the  love,  peace,  joy,  and  contentment  of 

Essence.  

By  using  our  will  to  choose  love  instead  of 

following our programming, we evoke love. As soon 

as we give our attention to love, we land in love. And 

what could be better than that? When you make this 

choice  often  enough,  you  discover  that  being  loving 

and  accepting  feels  much  better  than  being  right. 

The  ego  gets  some  smug  pleasure  from  being  right, 

but that bit of pleasure can’t compare with the good 

feeling that comes from loving.  

Noticing that you have a choice is key to making 

the right choice. When we are involved with others, 

we  often  go  unconscious  and  respond  automatically 

from  the  ego.  Being  in  relationship  is  challenging 

even  to  those  who  are  very  conscious  and  aware 

because the ego is easily triggered in relationship. As 

soon  as  we  open  our  mouths,  we  tend  to  give  voice 

to the ego and its thoughts, without evaluating those 

thoughts first.  

What  we  often  voice  are  our  opinions  and 

judgments,  all  of  which  are  likely  better  left  unsaid. 

The  ego’s  opinions  and  judgments  don’t  serve  our 

relationships any more than they serve us. Opinions 

and judgments are generally a way we try to prove to 

others  that  we  are  right.  When  we  pay  close 

 

 

 

attention to our interactions with others, we discover 

that  much  of  what  we  say  is  an  attempt  to  know 

something or to be right, which is how the ego tries 

to be superior.  

Another  desire  can  replace  the  desire  to  be  right 

and to be superior, and that is the desire for love and 

unity. You can choose to not speak the ego’s divisive 

judgments,  opinions,  and  beliefs.  The  loving  choice 

is  often  to  not  speak.  You  choose  to  not  give  your 

attention  to  the  ego’s  judgments,  opinions,  and 

beliefs because giving your attention to them doesn’t 

support  love.  When  you  make  the  choice  to  ignore 

and  not  give  voice  to  such  thoughts,  you  are 

choosing  Essence’s  desire  for  love  over  the  ego’s 

desire to be right. 

From Anatomy of Desire

 

 

 

 

TAKE TIME TO RESPOND FROM A DEEPER 

PLACE 

 

The  first  and  automatic  response  to  anything,  such 

as a request from someone or even an opportunity, is 

likely to come from the ego. We are programmed to 

respond  automatically,  and  this  programming  is 

released into the mind as a thought, opinion, belief, 

point of view, attitude, or emotional reaction. Often 

the  response  is  similar  to  how  we  have  responded 

many  times  before,  and 

it  usually  has  some 

psychological, emotional, or even astrological basis.  

Notice how quickly you come up with a response 

to  something  or  someone,  such  as  someone  asking 

you  to  do  something.  If  a  response  isn't  quick,  it's 

usually  because  of  conflicting  programming:  Two 

different  programmed  responses  are  in  conflict,  in 

which  case,  the 

immediate  reaction  might  be 

confusion, frustration, or anger.  

If  you  identify  with  the  first  response,  that  is,  if 

you  take  the  voice  in  your  head  (the  ego’s  voice)  as 

your voice, your opinion, or your reaction, chances are 

that  response  won't  be  very  charitable  or  wise 

 

 

because the ego isn't either of these. When you give 

voice  to  the  ego,  you  won't  feel  very  good  about 

yourself  because  the  ego's  responses  tend  to  be  self-

centered, unkind, and narrow-minded, which is how 

we feel when we are identified with the ego.  

When  that  happens,  you  might  try  to  feel  better 

about yourself through various strategies. You might 

try  to  build  a  case  to  justify  your  responses,  and 

judgments are often part of that. Since judging never 

feels  good,  the  ego  may  try  to  feel  better  by  seeking 

pleasure  or  in  other  ways  trying  to  improve  its  self-

image or situation, all because you bought into your 

initial, automatic reaction.  

Once you realize that your initial reaction is most 

likely from the ego, you can just wait a moment  for 

some other reaction to arise from deeper within you, 

from Essence. If Essence is given a chance, it will act 

and  speak  through  you.  But  if  you  act  and  speak 

automatically  from  the  ego,  you  won't  discover  how 

Essence might have responded.  

You can tell when Essence is speaking and acting 

through  you  because 

instead  of  being 

tense, 

confused,  or  unkind,  you  feel  at  peace,  open, 

accepting, and loving. Your response to a request, for 

instance,  may  still  be  no,  but  you  will  deliver  that 

 

"no"  in  a  way  that  the  person  won't  feel  hurt  or 

offended. 

As  we  mature,  we  usually  do  learn  to  be  kinder 

because  acting  out  of  the  ego  gets  us  into  trouble. 

Egos aren't very nice, and most of us learn to be nice 

by  holding  back  our  initial  reactions.  Doing  that  is 

certainly  better  than  giving  voice  to  an  unkind  ego, 

but that can leave us with negative feelings if we still 

believe  our  ego's  viewpoint.  The  way  out  of  these 

feelings  is  to  recognize  that  those  thoughts  are  the 

ego's  and  not  your  true  voice.  Don't  agree  with  the 

egoic  mind,  stay  apart  from  it,  and  just  notice  it. 

Then you can discover your true voice.  

You don't have to try to be nice; you only have to 

realize  that  what  isn't  nice  about  you  (and  everyone 

else) is the ego, and not who you really are. Step back 

and  give  some  space  and  time  to  your  initial 

thoughts  and  reactions,  and  you  will  discover 

Essence,  which  has  the  wisdom  and  love  to  bring 

peace and harmony to any situation. 

 

From Living in the Now

 

 

 

  

 

FOCUS ON WHAT IS LOVABLE 

The  alternative  to  rejecting  something  about  the  way 

things  are,  which  is  what  the  ego  does,  is  finding 

something to love about it. There's always something 

to  love  in  every  moment.  Can  you  find  a  sensation, 

something  of  beauty,  or  a  sound  that  is  loveable?  Is 

peace here, even just a sliver? Is love? Is contentment? 

Is the universe holding together?  

Being happy or not being happy is largely a matter 

of  what  we  focus  on.  The  ego  can  be  miserable,  and 

we  can  still  be  happy  if  we  find  something  loveable 

about what is going on. Finding something to love is 

hard  for  the ego,  but  it's  actually easy because there's 

plenty  that  is  loveable  about  life.  From  Essence's 

standpoint,  all  of  life  is  loveable  because  Essence 

experiences  life differently than the ego.  Essence  says 

yes to it, while the ego says no. Paying attention to the 

ego's  rejection  of  life  makes  us  miserable,  while 

noticing what is loveable fills us with love. 

The secret to happiness is to love---not to be loved, 

but  to  love.  Loving  is  essentially  saying  yes  to  life, 

accepting it. Loving feels good, even better than being 

loved. Nothing feels better than loving. However, the 

 

ego  doesn't  want  to  love  as  much  as  it  wants  other 

things, such as power and security. It would rather feel 

angry, sad, or any other emotion than love. Emotions 

give  the  ego  some  identity,  some  reason  for  existing. 

They give it a problem to fix.  

The ego doesn't want to love because loving makes 

it feel vulnerable. It doesn't trust love because the ego 

isn't  what  creates  or  experiences  love.  Loving  is  the 

domain  of  Essence,  and  when  we  are  experiencing 

love, we are experiencing Essence. So to move out of 

the  ego  and  into  Essence,  all  we  have  to  do  is  find 

something to love. Doing that is easy, but the catch is 

we have to want to. 

The  you 

that  wants 

to  move  out  of  ego 

identification  and  into  Essence  is  the  you  that  is 

already  not  identified  with  the  ego.  That  is  a  catch! 

The  ego  doesn't  want  you  to  move  out  of  ego 

identification,  but  something  else  does,  and  that's 

Essence. There comes a time in our spiritual evolution 

when  we  become  aware  of  a  you  that  can  choose  to 

move  out  of  ego  identification.  Then  we  begin  to 

wake  up  out  of  ego  identification  and  live  more  as 

Essence  in  the  world.  Essence  is  what  chooses  love 

over  the  ego's  values.  Essence  is  what  loves,  not  the 

ego. 

 

 

When we choose to find something loveable about 

the  present  moment,  we  will  find  many  things.  One 

thing that's always loveable is simply our willingness to 

love.  What  a  miracle!  In  the  midst  of  such  a  painful 

and difficult world, we have within us a willingness to 

love.  That  goodness  within  us  is  extremely  loveable. 

That  same  goodness  is  within  everyone  else  too, 

although that goodness—God-ness—is often hidden by 

the  ego.  Still,  there's  much  evidence  of  the  goodness 

within everyone when we look for it.  

One of the easiest ways to experience love is to give 

our  attention  to  something  we  love.  Just  looking  at 

our pets, for instance, opens our Heart, which is why 

pets are such a gift to us. Of course our children and 

other loved ones also open our Hearts, although their 

egos and ours often complicate love. Our pets' lack of 

ego  allows  our  ego  to  relax  and  stay 

in  the 

background. Anything of beauty also evokes our love: 

nature,  colors,  art,  and  music.  Since  beauty  is  always 

available, love is always available.  

We  can  also  experience  love  for  the  gift  of  being 

alive  and  for  being  able  to  experience  the  present 

moment.  That's  the  love  Essence  feels  as  it  lives  life 

through us. What a wonder the physical body is! That 

sense of wonder and gratitude for life, the body, and 

other living things is love. The Being that we are is in 

 

awe  of  life.  When  we  move  our  attention  onto  that 

which  loves  life,  we  feel  complete.  Nothing  more  is 

needed  in  the  moment  than  that.  What  a  surprise 

that life can be this simple and complete! 

Finding something to love in every moment is the 

antidote to the ego's rejection of the moment. When 

you  find  yourself  struggling  against  life,  stop  and 

notice  what's  beautiful  and  loveable.  And  don't  just 

stop with  one thing;  find another  and  another. Life 

can be lived from a place of celebration and gratitude 

instead of rejection. It's your choice. 

 

From Embracing the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

LOVE WHAT YOU DO 

 

One step beyond accepting whatever is happening is 

loving it. Once we accept what's happening, then we 

might  as  well  love  it.  Loving  whatever  is  happening 

just  means  getting  involved,  or  absorbed,  in  it, 

jumping right  into it and having  the  full experience 

of it. Thinking dilutes experience and keeps us from 

fully immersing in whatever we are doing. Thoughts 

accompany most experiences, and keep our attention 

from  being  completely  on  whatever  experience  we 

are  having.  Whatever  you  are  doing,  really  do  that, 

jump  in  with  both  feet.  If  you're  going  to  eat  that 

piece  of 

cake, 

then 

really 

experience 

it, 

unaccompanied by thoughts of guilt or strategies for 

how you will make up for the calories. 

So often, we commit to doing something without 

really  committing  to  it.  We  have  one  foot  in  an 

experience  and  one  foot  out  of  it.  While  we  are 

doing something, we question whether we want to be 

doing 

it,  complain  about 

it,  or  think  about 

something  else.  Being  involved  with  our  thoughts 

dilutes  the  experience  we  are  having.  It  removes  us 

 

from that experience and makes it hard to enjoy the 

experience.  

If  you  can't  commit  to  being  fully 

in  an 

experience, then one option might be to not do it at 

all. Do you really need to do it or do it at this time? 

The ego pushes us to do things on its timetable and 

to do things aligned with its goals. It pushes us to do 

something  and  complains  about  doing  what  it's 

pushing  us  to  do.  If  you're  going  to  do  something, 

then  commit  to  doing  it  with  joy.  If  you  can't  do 

something with joy, then consider not doing it at all 

or not doing it just then, if you can. 

Any  experience  can  be  enjoyable  if  our  attention 

is fully committed to it. The secret to enjoying life is 

committing our attention to whatever we are doing. 

When  we  do  that,  we  land  in  the  Now  and  in 

Essence,  and  Essence  loves  life.  As  long  as  we 

continue  to  give  our  attention  to  what  we  are 

experiencing,  we  will  feel  love  for  life,  however  life 

happens to be showing up.  

Giving  our  attention  to  what  we  are  doing  is 

much  more  difficult  when  we  are  doing  something 

we don't like to do. If we didn't like doing something 

in  the  past,  we  often  assume  we  won't  like  doing  it 

again,  but  do  you  really  know  that?  The  reason  we 

don't like doing something is because the mind gives 

 

 

us 

reasons 

for  not 

liking 

it:  Doing 

it 

is 

uncomfortable, messy, hard, tiring, scary, and so on. 

Such  complaints  seem  reasonable  from  the  ego's 

standpoint.  However,  we  can  love  doing  something 

even  though  it's  uncomfortable,  messy,  hard,  tiring, 

scary  or  whatever.  Besides,  no  experience  can  be 

summed  up  in  a  few  words.  These  are  the  ego's 

stories,  which  don't  capture 

the  entire,  real 

experience.  The  mind  emphasizes  the  negatives  and 

ignores  the  positives.  When  we  focus  on  the 

negatives,  they  become  magnified,  and  the  rest 

recedes  into  the  background.  The  result  is  that  we 

have a negative experience. 

Essence 

loves  experiences  the  ego  considers 

unpleasant  just  as  much as  it  loves  pleasant  ones.  It 

doesn't  categorize  life  as  good  or  bad,  pleasant  or 

unpleasant,  like  the  ego  does.  It  doesn't  evaluate  or 

judge like the ego does. “Pleasant” and “unpleasant” 

aren't in Essence's vocabulary. Whatever is, is just the 

way  it  is,  without  a  particular  definition.  Accessing 

the part of us, Essence, that loves the experience we 

are having is always possible, but to do that, we have 

to ignore the ego's point of view.  

Complaining about something while we are doing 

it  makes  it  impossible  to  enjoy  it.  Check  it  out  for 

yourself:  Has  complaining  ever 

improved  an 

 

experience?  What  happens  when  you  give  up  your 

complaints  and  become  absorbed  in  the  experience 

rather  than  in  the  pain,  discomfort,  or  resistance  to 

it?  Without  the  ego's  complaints  and  fears,  even 

physical  pain  can  be  accepted  and  more  easily 

endured.  Without  the  mind's  complaints,  enjoying, 

or at least accepting, anything is possible.  

The  ego  likes  to  complain  because  complaining 

gives  it  something  to  talk  about.  The  chatterbox 

mind  has  to  say  something!  So  the  mind  finds 

something it doesn't like and gets very busy building 

a  case  against 

it.  The  problem  is,  if  we  are 

complaining  about  something  when  we're  doing  it, 

complaining becomes our experience of doing it, and 

we're  no  longer  having  the  full  experience  of  the 

Now.  

To  love  what  we  are  experiencing,  all  it  takes  is 

our  attention.  When  we  give  our  attention  to 

something,  love  flows  to  it.  So  if  you  want  to  love 

what  you're  experiencing  instead  of  resist  it,  give  it 

your  attention.  That's  the  antidote  to  the  ego's 

resistance. If we give our attention to our resistance, 

we are loving resisting. Then resistance is magnified 

and becomes our experience.  

Because the ego doesn't  want to  love, we  have to 

find within us that which is willing to love life just as 

 

it  is.  We  have  to  summon  that  to  counter  the  ego's 

complaints  and  resistance  to  life.  We  summon,  or 

align with, Essence by giving our full attention to the 

 

 

Now.  

From Embracing the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE WHAT YOU LOVE 

What  do  you  like  most  about  being  alive  now  on 

planet earth? The song from “The Sound  of Music” 

about  favorite  things  (“Raindrops  on  roses  and 

whiskers  on  kittens…  these  are  a  few  of  my  favorite 

things”) is an expression from Essence. When we are 

in Essence, we love the little things, like whiskers on 

kittens—what a miracle! There's so much joy when we 

are really present to life and the miracle that it is. We 

get joy from the littlest things.  

This  is  so  unlike  the  ego,  which  disparages  such 

things.  “Oh  that—I've  seen  that  before!”  is  its 

attitude.  It  wants  life  to  be  about  it,  not  about  life 

itself.  The  ego  loves  whatever  makes  it  feel  good 

about  itself,  not  what  makes  it  feel  good.  This 

egocentricity  is  one  of  the  most  obvious  differences 

between  the  state  of  ego  identification  and  our 

natural  state,  or  Essence.  The  ego  refers  whatever  is 

happening  back  to  itself:  What  will  it  mean  to  me? 

But when we are in Essence, we experience Essence's 

joy at experiencing itself through all of creation.  

 

 

So  what  is  it  you  love  about  life?  It's  so  good  to 

notice and acknowledge this because doing so aligns 

us  with  Essence  and  strengthen  our  awareness  of 

Essence's presence in our life. When we notice those 

whiskers,  those  dew  drops,  those  beautiful  and 

amazing  things  about  planet  earth  and  its  creations, 

we  can't  help  but  feel  Essence's  joy.  The  only  thing 

that  gets  in  the  way  of  that  joy  is  not  noticing  such 

things, and the only reason we don't is if we are busy 

noticing  something  else,  which  for  most  people  is 

their thoughts.  

Do  your  thoughts  bring  you  that  same  kind  of 

joy? It really helps to notice the impact that thoughts 

have  on  your  state  of  consciousness  because  when 

you  do,  you  see  that  they  don't  give  you  the  same 

peace,  joy,  and  happiness  that  noticing  life  more 

purely does.  

Do you love how the clouds move and shift as you 

watch  them?  Do  you  love  how  the  stars  seem  to 

twinkle? Do you love how your dog's chest moves up 

and down when breathing? Do you love the sound of 

the wind in the trees before a storm? Do you love the 

smell of damp leaves in the fall? Do you love the feel 

of  the  water  against  your  skin  when  you  are 

swimming  through  it?  It's  impossible  to  run  out  of 

things to love about life. What a wonderful spiritual 

 

practice it is to notice and feel gratitude for the little 

things in life. What feels that way is Essence. So you 

see,  Essence  is  very  close  at  hand.  It's  not  some 

mysterious  force  separate  from  us,  but  that  which 

lives through us and experiences this precious life we 

have been given.  

What a different world it is when, instead, we are 

identified  with  the  ego.  Every  little  experience  and 

change has tension around it: Will it be good or bad 

for me? The ego evaluates everything, even the breeze, 

even  the  dew,  even  the  whiskers  on  kittens.  It  can 

find a problem with anything: The breeze musses my 

hair, the dew makes my feet wet, I need to trim those 

whiskers.  That's  how  the  ego  sees  life.  It's  always 

about how something affects me, how it might affect 

me  in  the  future,  or  how  it  has  affected  me  in  the 

past.  

The  egoic  mind  tells  stories  about  the  big  and 

little  things  in  life,  which  takes  us  out  of  the 

experience of life and makes life seem more terrible, 

frightening, and troublesome than it actually is. The 

reason living in Essence feels peaceful is that peace is 

the  real  experience  of  life.  Yes,  life  is  more  peaceful 

than  the  ego's  experience  of  it.  The  mind  scares  us 

and causes us to distrust life and live in fear, doubt, 

and suspicion of what is going to happen rather than 

 

 

 

in excited anticipation for what will be revealed next 

in this great adventure called life. Yes, life is terrible 

sometimes, but it's never as terrible as the mind says 

it  is.  The  ego  makes  it  terrible  by  telling  us  it  is 

terrible. How obvious this is once we really look, and 

that  is  the  difference.  When  we  are  conscious  and 

noticing  what's  true  rather  than  unconscious  and 

accepting  what  the  mind  tells  us,  the  truth  is 

obvious. Just notice this beautiful gift of life you have 

been given. Just notice what is true and real. 

From Living in the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

BE KIND TO YOURSELF 

Love is the underlying fabric of life, and kindness is 

its  reflection  in  the  world,  through  us.  It  can  be 

conveyed  in  attentiveness  to  others,  in  words,  or  in 

deeds. One of the most powerful acts of kindness is 

kindness  toward  ourselves.  That  is  really  where 

kindness  begins.  If  we  aren't  kind  to  ourselves,  how 

can we be kind to others? Unless we are also kind to 

ourselves,  kindness  toward  others  is  more  of  a 

manipulation,  an  attempt  to  get  others  to  give  us 

something,  including  love.  However,  unless  we  are 

kind  to  ourselves,  we  won't  even  be  able  to  take  in 

any  kindness  we  do  receive  from  others.  That  place 

of  lack  inside  of  us  can't  be  filled  from  the  outside. 

First, we have to be kind to ourselves.  

True kindness comes from a desire to soothe and 

comfort  others  because  we  have  discovered  the 

power and blessing of kindness as a result of having 

received  it.  Receiving  kindness  from  others  heals  us 

and  makes  it  possible  to  express  it  to  others.  If  we 

haven't  received  much  kindness  from  others,  we 

need to find a way to give it to ourselves, to be kind 

 

 

to ourselves even though others may not have been. 

To  do  that,  we  have  to  do  two  things:  We  have  to 

forgive those who weren't kind to us, and we have to 

see that we deserve love.  

Unfortunately,  those  who  didn't  receive  a  lot  of 

kindness  as  children  usually  concluded  that  they 

deserved that and that they aren't lovable. They need 

to forgive those who were unable to be kind to them 

(probably  because  they  were  treated  the  same  way 

when  they  were  young)  and  learn  to  give  love  to 

themselves. Those who were abused learned to abuse 

themselves  inwardly;  they  learned  to  believe  their 

negative  thoughts  about  themselves.  They  need  to 

develop a loving inner voice rather than an unloving 

one.  That  can  be  done,  but  it  takes  a  willingness  to 

see  the  truth,  to  see  through  the  negative  self-image 

to the truth—that you are divinity in a human body, 

that you are love incarnate.  

Everyone  has  the  same  capacity  to  love,  but  that 

ability may have been squelched by not having been 

loved. Not  being loved as a child blocks the natural 

flow of love, and giving love to yourself allows love to 

flow  outward  again.  It's  always  possible  to  give 

ourselves  love  because  our  true  nature  (Essence) 

loves  the  human  expression  that  we  are,  no  matter 

what  we  have  or  haven't  done,  no  matter  what  our 

 

shortcomings  are.  When  we  tap  into  the  love—the 

kindness  and  compassion—that  our  true  self  has  for 

the  human  that  we  are  and  for  all  of  humanity,  we 

unleash  the  power  of  love  in  our  life  to  heal 

ourselves and others.  

We desperately need this now on earth. Can you 

find  it  in  your  heart  to  be  kind  to  yourself?  This  is 

not a selfish act, but the most unselfish act because it 

allows  the  love  of  your  true  nature  to  flow  outward 

toward all of life. You don't have to like the ego and 

its  ways;  just  accept  it  as  part  of  the  human 

condition.  Be  kind  and  compassionate  toward 

yourself and those who are caught in the ego and the 

suffering it causes, and this kindness will release you 

and  others  from  the  ego's  prison  of  limitation  and 

fear.  Love  yourself  and  others  for  the  courage  to  be 

alive and be human in these difficult and challenging 

times.  Give  yourself  and  others  some  slack.  Forgive, 

allow,  accept,  and  be  kind.  Relax  and  let  everything 

be as it is. 

 

From Living in the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

ENJOY WHATEVER YOU ARE DOING 

 

Whatever you are doing, enjoy it! You have another 

option,  of  course,  which  is  to  not  enjoy  it.  Notice 

what  keeps  you  from  enjoying  whatever  you  are 

doing. It's your thoughts, isn't it? Even when you are 

experiencing  pain  or  something  unpleasant,  like 

going  to  the  dentist,  if  you  don't  listen  to  any 

negative  thoughts,  fears,  complaints,  and  desires 

about  it,  you  won't  suffer.  You'll  just  have  the 

experience.  

Our  thoughts  about  whatever  we  are  doing 

interfere  with  enjoying  it  not  only  because  they  are 

often  negative, 

judgmental,  or  resistant  to  the 

experience,  but  also  because  thoughts—even  positive 

ones—remove us from an experience to some degree. 

Some  thoughts  don't  interfere  much  with  being 

present  and  enjoying  what  we  are  doing;  they  just 

float  in  and  out  of  our  mind,  without  taking  very 

much  of  our  attention.  Other  thoughts,  however, 

grab  us,  and  we  lose  touch  with  what  we  are  doing 

and  the  experience  we  are  having.  When  that 

 

happens,  it  feels  like  we  are  going  through  the 

motions or doing something just to get it done.  

We  can  go  through  life  this  way  if  we  want,  but 

when  we  aren't  fully  in  contact  with  what  we're 

doing, we miss out on the potential joy and pleasure 

in  it.  Any  experience  can  be  interesting,  since  we 

have never had it before. And any experience can be 

enjoyed,  because  when  we  are  immersed  in  it,  we 

lose the false self (the sense of I or me) and discover 

our true self, which is always enjoying life. Essence is 

always  in-joy.  And  from  Essence's  standpoint,  every 

moment  is  an  opportunity  to  serve  life  and  love, 

which  is  another  source  of 

joy.  What  if  you 

approached  each  moment  as  an  opportunity  to 

experience, serve, or love? 

The  secret  to  enjoying  whatever  you  are  doing  is 

getting  lost  in  it,  getting  involved  in  it.  That  means 

getting  all  your  senses  involved  in  it  or,  more 

accurately, noticing how  all  your senses  are involved 

in it. Noticing sensory experience takes us out of our 

egoic  mind  (our  functional  mind  is  still  available) 

and  into  the  experience  we  are  having.  When  you 

are present to the experience you are having, you are 

in  the  moment,  where  it's  possible  to  experience 

Presence,  or  Essence.  The  experience  of  Essence  is 

 

 

 

highly pleasurable, so no matter what you are doing, 

if you are present to it, it will be enjoyable.  

What's so hard about being present? It takes some 

practice to be in our body and aware of our sensory 

experience  because  the  habit  of  being  absorbed  in 

thought  is  so  deeply  ingrained.  We  have  to  practice 

being  present  again  and  again  to  neutralize  the  old 

habit of identifying with  the voice  in our head,  and 

that takes dedication and commitment.  

Meditation  is  a  way  of  practicing  being  present, 

and it will really help you live in the moment more. 

Meditation  teaches  us  to  detach  from  the  egoic 

mind, observe it, and see it for what it is. Objectivity 

toward the voice in our head is essential in breaking 

the programming that causes us to identify with that 

voice,  which  belongs  primarily  to  the  ego.  You  can 

even learn to enjoy meditation if you don't listen  to 

the egoic mind's resistance to it! 

From Living in the Now 

 

 

 

 

 

EXPRESS GRATITUDE 

Gratitude  is  a  quality  of  Essence,  and  when  we  are 

feeling it, we are in Essence. When we are not feeling 

it,  expressing  it  anyway  can  get  us  to  feel  it,  and 

expressing  gratitude  will  also  help  others  in  our  life 

drop  into  Essence.  Expressing  gratitude  is  good  for 

you and good for those you express gratitude to. It’s 

a  simple  thing  you  can  do  that  will  help  you  and 

those around you live more from Essence. 

It’s surprising how uplifting gratitude, even over 

little things, can be: “I love that you remembered to 

do  that.”  “You’re  so  wonderful  at  fixing  things.”  “I 

appreciate how sweet you are.” Giving and receiving 

gratitude  for  something  small  feels  just  as  good  as 

giving  and  receiving  it  for  something  big.  The  small 

things that  others do for us are so often overlooked 

and 

taken 

for  granted,  but 

they  are 

real 

opportunities to express our gratitude and thus keep 

the good feelings going in our relationships. 

There’s always something to be grateful for—just 

the fact that you and your loved ones are together for 

another  day  (someday  this  will  no  longer  be  true), 

 

 

that you can function as you do, that you have what 

you  have.  The  fact  that  someone  is  willing  to  do 

anything for us is quite a miracle; it’s an act of love. 

These  acts  of  love  are  natural  to  Essence,  but  not 

natural at all to the ego. Every act of giving without 

trying  to  get  something  in  return  comes  from 

Essence. 

Tension  in  relationships  is  often  caused  by  not 

feeling  appreciated,  and  gratitude  is  the  antidote  to 

that. A lack of appreciation for our partner and what 

he or she does comes from being identified with the 

ego. When we are identified with the ego, we notice 

what  someone  hasn’t  done  for  us.  And  we  don’t 

notice  what  he  or  she  has  done  for  us,  so  we  don’t 

feel  appreciation.  We  take  for  granted  the  good 

qualities  and  good  acts  of  our  partner  and,  instead, 

focus  on  what  else  we  want.  We  demand  more, 

without  appreciating  what  we  have.  We  forget  what 

we fell in love with about our partner, and we want 

more  or  something  different.  We  forget  to  express 

gratitude because we don’t feel appreciative. But this 

lack of appreciation can be turned around by simply 

expressing gratitude, whether you feel it or not. 

When  you  are  identified  with  the  ego,  your 

partner  is  bound  to  feel  unappreciated.  And  when 

your partner feels unappreciated, he or she wants to 

 

be  acknowledged  by  you.  When  you  do  that,  his  or 

her  ego  can  relax  because,  even  though  the  ego 

doesn’t express appreciation, it does expect to receive 

it! When your partner experiences appreciation, your 

partner’s ego is soothed, and he or she can drop into 

Essence. Often, it isn’t that your partner isn’t willing 

to give to you; it’s that your partner just wants to be 

acknowledged and appreciated for giving. 

A 

little  appreciation  goes  a 

long  way 

in 

relationships.  It  results 

in  cooperation, 

in  the 

willingness  to  be  helpful  to  each  other,  while  a  lack 

of  appreciation  often  results  in  the  withdrawal  of 

love  and  giving,  which  can  have  a  very  negative, 

spiraling  effect.  To  turn  this  negative  spiral  around, 

gratitude,  appreciation,  praise,  and  compliments  do 

wonders.  Sometimes  that’s  all  that  is  needed  for 

harmony, happiness, and love to flow once again. 

 

From Loving in the Moment 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DON’T SHARE THE EGO’S TRUTH 

The  ego’s  thoughts  in  general,  and  judgments  in 

particular,  aren’t  necessarily  useful  to  share  with 

others. Honesty is not the best policy, if that honesty 

comes  from  the  ego.  In  addition  to  judgments,  the 

ego  is  full  of  opinions,  complaints,  and  half-truths, 

and  sharing  these  with  others  can  only  bring  them 

into  the  egoic  state  of  consciousness.  And  often, 

what the ego thinks is just plain hurtful. Most people 

are  conditioned  to  believe  that  being  honest  is 

necessary  and  good  for  relationships  when,  in  fact, 

it’s  often  very  detrimental.  If  being  truthful  means 

expressing  the  ego’s  truth,  then  it’s  better  to  not  be 

truthful or to just keep quiet. The ego’s truth is not 

the  truth,  and  speaking  it  just  keeps  us  identified 

with the ego and drags others into ego identification. 

For instance, sharing what you don’t like about 

your partner is just hurtful and doesn’t serve. What’s 

the  point  in  telling  your  partner  you  don’t  like  the 

way he or she smiles, or the way he or she dresses, or 

the way he or she drives, or the way he or she talks to 

the dog? It only creates tension between you. Sharing 

 

such  information  is  generally  an  attempt,  although 

an ineffective one, to change the other person to fit 

your  preferences.  If  something  you  say  will  result  in 

contraction  or  negative  feelings  in  the  other  person 

rather than love, then it’s better to not say it—even if 

it’s  true  to  you.  Choose  love  rather  than  the  ego’s 

truth.  The  ego  chooses  to  speak  its  truth  instead  of 

being  loving  because  doing  so  gives  it  a  feeling  of 

being  right.  But  being  right  doesn’t  actually  feel 

good, certainly not like love feels. 

Even  if  your  partner  asks  your  opinion  about 

how  he  or  she  looks,  it  never  serves  to  be  honest  if 

you  don’t  like  something,  especially  if  it  isn’t 

something that can be changed. It’s one thing to say, 

“I  like  that  dress  better  than  the  other  one,”  and 

quite another to say, “I think you look a little fat in 

that.” One expresses a preference about a dress, and 

the  other  expresses  an  opinion  about  the  person’s 

body,  which  can’t  easily  be  changed.  Perhaps  she 

says, “Do you think I’ve gained a little weight?” Even 

if  you  think  she  has,  find  a  way  to  make  her  feel 

good  instead  of  agreeing  with  her—for  example, 

“You’re as beautiful as ever!” Or if she says, “Are you 

mad  at  me?”  you  might  say,  “No,  I’m  mad  about 

you.”  It  feels  good  to  say  something  nice,  and  the 

other person will appreciate your sweetness. You will 

 

 

have brought her into Essence and out of her critical 

mind. What a gift! 

When  the  ego  speaks,  it  results  in  contraction, 

bad feelings, and possibly tension and conflict in the 

relationship.  When  Essence  speaks,  on  the  other 

hand, people feel good, they relax, they feel love, and 

they  give  love.  Paradise  is  restored!  When  Essence 

speaks, 

it 

expresses 

appreciation, 

approval, 

acceptance, compassion, patience, and love: “Take as 

much  time  as  you  want,”  “I  love  how  you  do  that,” 

“It’s fine just the way it is,” “It’s not that easy to do,” 

“You’re  so  sweet.”  Essence  compliments  and  uplifts 

rather  than  judges.  This  is  the  difference  between 

heaven and hell on earth and in relationships. 

Love  is  much  more  important  than  honesty. 

Honesty  doesn’t  serve  relationships  when  it  creates 

contraction  and  tension.  When  contraction  and 

tension  are  present,  you  can  be  sure  that  the  ego’s 

truth  and  not  Essence’s  is  being  spoken.  Let  the 

results  of  your  words  be  what  determines  whether 

you  speak  them  or  not.  Speak  only  what  brings 

harmony and love to the relationship and forgo what 

the ego has to say. That’s a much better policy than 

honesty. 

 

From Loving in the Moment 

 

 

 

 

 

MAKE THE LOVING CHOICE 

The Heart loves. It loves and accepts everything that 

happens  in  life  because  it  loves  life.  However, 

although  the  Heart  accepts  everything,  it  moves  us 

and  life  toward  love.  The  Heart  allows  the  ego  to 

move away from love, but the Heart is always moving 

us  toward  love.  Eventually  the  Heart  wins  out,  and 

we  all  end  up 

feeling 

love,  gratitude,  and 

appreciation for life and for all that life has brought 

us,  for  that  is  how  the  Heart,  or  Essence,  feels  in 

every moment. 

The  Heart  desires  love  above  all  else.  It  isn’t 

willing  to  exchange  money,  safety,  power,  prestige, 

success, or anything else for love. Love is the Heart’s 

priority, and that is how we can tell Essence from the 

ego.  The  ego  isn’t  willing  to  choose  love  over  these 

things unless it sees love as an avenue to these things.  

In any moment, the Heart is choosing love, while 

the ego is likely to be choosing something else. What 

are  you  choosing?  When  we  are  unaware  of  the 

possibility  of  choosing 

love  or  when  we  are 

unaccustomed to choosing love, we may not see that 

 

 

we  have  a  choice.  And  yet  every  moment  holds  the 

possibility  of  either  choosing  love  or  choosing  the 

ego’s  way  of  being  and  seeing.  What  is  the  loving 

choice  in  this  moment?  What  would  Essence  do? 

When  those  questions  become  a  part  of  every 

moment, life flows and flowers.  

The loving choice draws love to it, which is all we 

have  ever  wanted  anyway.  Love 

is 

the  most 

powerfully  attractive  force  in  the  universe,  more 

powerful  than  beauty,  power,  wealth,  success,  or 

anything else we might want. When we choose love, 

we align ourselves with Essence, with the Heart. We 

drop instantly into Essence, where other qualities of 

Essence,  such  as  gratitude,  peace,  contentment,  and 

happiness, can be felt.  

This  sounds  so  simple,  but  if  dropping  into 

Essence  were  easy,  there  would  be  much  more  love 

in the world. The reason doing this isn’t easy is that 

we  are  programmed  to  pay  attention  to  the  egoic 

mind, the voice in our head, and giving attention to 

anything  is  the  same  as  choosing  it.  Whatever  we 

give our attention to, we identify with. If we give our 

attention  to  love,  we  identify  with  love,  and  if  we 

give  our  attention  to  our  thoughts,  we  identify  with 

(i.e., believe) them.  

 

Choosing  love  requires  consciously  choosing  to 

put our attention on the present moment and on the 

qualities of Essence instead of on our thoughts, and 

that  takes  awareness  and  the  will  to  go  against  our 

programming.  Once  we  are  convinced  that  our 

programming,  or  conditioning,  isn’t  worth  paying 

attention  to,  giving  our  attention  to  the  moment 

isn’t  so  difficult.  The  challenge  is  that  we  are 

programmed to believe our thoughts and follow our 

conditioning.  

Choosing  love  requires  seeing  beyond  the  ego’s 

desires,  needs,  and  conditioning.  The  ego  only 

knows  what  it  wants,  what  it  feels  it  needs,  what  it 

believes, what it was taught, and what has worked in 

the  past.  When  we  are  identified  with  the  egoic 

mind,  we  make  choices  and  act  on  the  basis  of  the 

ego’s  needs,  its  knowledge,  and  its  perceptions, 

which often doesn’t result in the best response. Only 

Essence  has  the  wisdom  to  know  what  is  best  for 

each situation, not the ego.  

Even  trying  to  answer  the  question,  "What  does 

Essence  want?"  might  not  give  us  the  answer.  We 

might  only  get  the  ego’s  answer  to  that  question. 

Still,  this  question  is  worth  asking  because  doing  so 

interrupts the automatic identification with the egoic 

mind  that  is  our  default  position  long  enough  to 

 

 

allow  the  possibility  of  Essence  to  inform  us  of  the 

truth in Essence’s own way.  

Asking  that  question  stops  us  momentarily  and 

invites  us  to  listen,  and  listening  is  key  to  aligning 

with  Essence  and  with  love.  Because  we  are  usually 

busy  listening  to  the  egoic  mind